How Things Work
Last Updated 12 Mar 2005


Table of Contents

A. Introduction, Copyright, Disclaimer

B. General Battle Information

C. Stats, Stat Modifiers, and Stat Caps

D. Status Ailments

E. Type Effectiveness

F. Order of Operations

G. Moves
     1. General Information
     2. Ways of Obtaining
     3. Previous Evolution Moves
     4. Number of Moves
     5. Specific Move Information

H. Other Battle-Related Things
     1. Critical Hits
     2. Flinching
     3. Items
     4. In-game Differences (cross reference)
     5. Stadium Differences (cross reference)

I. Reference Information
     1. Glossary
     2. Additional Resources
     3. Revision History
     4. Contacting Me
     5. Unanswered Questions
     6. Credits



A. Introduction, Copyright, Disclaimer;
The purpose of this document is to provide as much and as detailed information as possible
about the battling aspect of the Pokémon chromatic generation. It should be noted that despite
this, I do not guarantee that the information provided is 100% complete or accurate (see
especially I5).

All trademarks and copyrighted information contained in this document are owned by there
respective holders. This document is Copyright 2004-2005 by Nautilator and may not be
distributed, or modified without permission. The latest version of this document can be found
at GameFAQs (http://www.gamefaqs.com), and at
http://roadcaesar.homestead.com/files/rby-stuff.zip (though I might make slight format changes
to that one that GameFAQs does not allow).

Parts of this document, such as triple astericks entries and entries in F1 and F2, have been
worded to facilitate search convenience.



B. General Battle Information;
This section describes what can happen or be done during a battle and other information that
can related to the process of battling. General information relevant to all gameboy battles is
first given, and then any information that is relevant only to certain types of battles is
then presented and noted accordingly.


When you start a battle, you will automatically send out the first pokémon in your team that
has not fainted. During any one turn of a battle, there are four general actions that can be
performed: fight, switch, use an item, or run away.

***Fight***
You can order your active pokémon to attempt an attack, the effects of which are listed in E4.

***Switch***
If you don't want your current active pokémon to fight, you can decide to switch it to one of
your other party members (though this will not be possible if your team party has only one
member, or if you try to switch to a pokémon that has fainted). Switching your active pokémon
takes precedence over all other actions. Any time either player switches, the last move used
flag of both pokémon will be reset.

***Use an Item***
You can opt to use an item instead of attacking. The use of an item takes precedence over
making a move, though not over switching. Item use during a battle is restricted to items that
can restore HP, restore PP, cure a status ailment, temporarily increase a stat, attempt to
catch the opposing pokémon, or allow you to escape from the battle. It is not possible to
escape from a trainer battle, and it is not possible to catch a trainer's pokémon (though you
still have the ability to try). This option is unavailable in link battles.

***Run away***
If you do not want to battle, you can attempt to run away from the opposing pokémon. If the 
current speed of your active pokémon is greater than or equal to the current speed of the
opponent, you will be able to run away without any problems, but if the current speed of your
active pokémon is less than the speed of the opponent, there is a chance of not being able to
escape, in which case you do nothing during that round. It is not possible to run away from a
trainer battle.

A battle will end if all of your pokémon faint, if all the opposing pokémon faint, or (if
against a wild pokémon) the opposing pokémon is caught.

A pokémon's health will be represented by health bar with 48 pixels. The health bar will be
green if it has int(2.25*int(MaxHP/4) + 0.75) or more HP, orange if it has
int(265*int(0.2*MaxHP + 0.2)/256 + 2) or more HP but less HP than the amount needed for a green
health bar, and red if it has less HP than the amount needed for a yellow bar. This translates
into approximate ranges of 1% to 20% for a red meter, 21% to 55% for an orange meter, and 56%
or higher for a green meter. If a pokémon's health bar is red, its cry will change, further
indicating that it is in poor health.

The Battle Damage Formula is:

     (((((min(((((2L/5 + 2)*A*P)/max(1, D))/50), 997) + 2)*S)*T)/10)*R)/255

and is used to calculate the damage done by an attack with a power value. L is the user's
level, A is the user's current attack, P is the move's power, D is the opponent's current
defense, S is the STAB modifier (S is 1.5 if the move's type matches one of the user's, and is
otherwise 1), T is the type effectiveness modifier (40, 20, 10, 5, 2.5, or 0; note though that
this is afterwards divided by 10), and R is a random number between 217 and 255. If an
opponent's defense is decreased to 0 during calculations (such as for Selfdestruct and
Explosion), it will be increased to 1 (though this doesn't happen if the defense value used
experiences rollover). The maximum amount of damage any one attack can do before STAB or type
effectiveness multipliers is 999.

There are some other phenomena that influence the BDF. One is rollover, the effects of which
are described in the Stats section. Each time a calculation is made, it is done by integer
division, which results in the decimal (if any) always being dropped, instead of rounded.
Aside from recurrent damage, the amount of damage done to a pokémon can never be greater than
its current HP (but the amount of damage done to a substitute can). Any time a damaging move
results in 0 damage being done, it will generate a miss, though the displayed message will
almost always be that the opponent is unaffected. Also, if the pokémon's current attack or
current defense is greater than 255, then its attack and its defense will be halved, and halved
again (truncating both times), and those numbers will be used in place of its actual attack and
defense values.

If an active pokémon switches out, all benefits and losses of moves that have influenced it
while it remained active will be reset. The only things a pokémon will retain after switching
is its current HP, current PP, and any major status ailments it has.


Common to all in-game battles:
Your PP is of course limited, but the opponent will have an unlimited amount current of PP.
Each time an opponent pokémon faints, every one of your team members that was active during
that battle will gain experience. If you win the battle, you will pick up any money generated
by the use of Pay Day and will receive money if the battle was against a trainer. If all of
your pokémon are knocked out, you will black out, and awake in the last pokémon center you
visited, with half of your money.

If a pokémon has been traded to you (either from another person or from a person in the game),
it will gain 50% more experience from each battle than your pokémon, but if you do not have the
proper badges, it may become unruly. It will always run away when ordered to, but if ordered to
attack, it might turn away, loaf around, ignore orders, use a different attack, begin to nap,
or not obey. If it turns away, loafs around, or ignores orders, it will simply not make a move
during that round. If it uses a different move, PP will still be deducted from the move you
ordered it to use. If it begins to nap, it will fall asleep (but not regain any HP in the
process). If if does not obey, it will hurt itself in its confusion.

After defeating each of the eight gym leaders, you will receive the leader's badge, enhancing
your in-game abilities.

Boulderbadge: increases the attack of all your pokémon by 12.5% of its original value
              allows you to use Flash outside of battle

Cascadebadge: traded pokémon of up to Lv.30 will always obey you
              allows you to use Cut outside of battle

Thunderbadge: increases the speed of all your pokémon by 12.5% of its original value
              allows you to use Fly outside of battle

Rainbowbadge: traded pokémon of up to Lv.50 will always obey you
              allows you to use Strength outside of battle

Soul Badge: increases the defense of all your pokémon by 12.5% of its original value
            allows you to use Surf outside of battle

Marsh Badge: traded pokémon of up to Lv.70 will always obey you

Volcanobadge: increases the special of all your pokémon by 12.5% of its original value

Earth Badge: traded pokémon of up to Lv.100 will always obey you

The effects of gym leader badges apply to all in-game battles. Even without any gym badges,
traded pokémon of up to Lv.10 will always obey you. Note that the Earth Badge will allow you
to control traded pokémon of up to Lv.100, as opposed to allowing you to control all traded
pokémon. It is not possible for you to fully control a traded pokémon that is above Lv.100
(though such a pokémon would have to be obtained via a glitch or cheating device).

Stat increases due to badges are automatically applied to all your pokémon, and do not
count as stat level changes. Because of these stat increases, the stat value cap for all stats
essentially becomes 888 instead of 999. Also, each time your pokémon uses a stat-increasing
move (such as Amnesia, Double Team, or Swords Dance), the stat increases given by the badges
will be applied again; this is known as the stat bleeding glitch.


Wild pokémon battles:
Wild pokémon can be encountered in tall grass, caves, across water, or when fishing (or in the
Safari Zone, but that is slightly different, as noted below). You can attempt to catch the
pokémon by throwing a pokéball at it before it faints. The battle ends when the wild pokémon
has fainted or been caught, or all of your active pokémon have fainted.


Safari Zone battles:
The Safari Zone is located in Fuschia City. You pay 500 pokédollars for 30 Safari Balls (which
act like Great Balls), and can stay until you use all of them, walk 500 steps, or leave on your
own will, whichever happens first. When encountering pokémon in the Safari Zone, you can't
battle them. Instead, you will have the option to throw bait, a rock, or a Safari Ball at the
pokémon, or to run away. Throwing a rock doubles the pokémon's catch rate and run away rate,
while throwing bait halves a pokémon's catch rate and run away rate.


Trainer battles:
If you get in the field of view of a trainer, an exclamation point will appear over the
trainer's head and the trainer will walk up to you, give an introduction, and start a battle.
Whenever you knock out one of the trainer's pokémon, you will be told what the next pokémon
sent out will be and then have the option of switching your active pokémon without taking a
turn, even if your active pokémon normally couldn't. Instead of attacking or switching, both
you and the trainer (though the trainer almost never does this) may use an item. You may also
throw a pokéball at the opponent's pokémon, but the trainer will always block it. You win by
knocking out all of the trainer's pokémon. It is not possible to run from a trainer battle. Gym
leaders and Elite 4 members will not automatically walk up to you; you must face them and press
A to challenge them.


Link Battles:
If you and someone else have linked your games and are both in pokémon centers, the person in
the right half of the pokémon center will allow you to trade pokémon or battle. You will have
to save before battling, and your pokémon will not be automatically healed before battling.
Choosing to battle will land you and your opponent in a room with a battling simulator, and
when both of you have pressed A while facing it, the battle will begin. During each turn, you
will have the chance to make an attack, switch your active pokémon, or run away. You win if
your opponent has no active pokémon or runs away, lose if you have no active pokémon or run
away, and draw if both of you simultaneously run away or have no active pokémon.

For the purpose of a link battle, badges, unruliness, items, and gaining experience do not
exist, and your pokémon will be restored to their original state after the battle ends or is
reset.


Stadium Differences:
A pokémon's health bar will have 96 pixels. Players will be able to see the exact amount of
current and maximum HP that each active pokémon has. Damaging moves that do 0 damage will
always result in a message that the move missed.



C. Stats, Stat Modifiers, and Stat Caps

All pokémon have six numerical statistics (Level, HP, Attack, Defense, Speed, Special), as well
as two non-numerical stats (Accuracy, Evasion). Pokémon also have experience points, which are
used to determine their levels, and stat experience, a non-visible number that affects a
pokémon's stats.

***Level, Experience Points***
Each time a pokémon grows a level, its other numerical stats will increase. Both level and the
appropriate offensive stat are used in the BDF to calculate the amount of damage it can do, so
an increase in level results in an increase in average damage. Since a pokémon's level also
determines how much damage Night Shade, Seismic Toss, and (less directly) Psywave will do, the
damage done by those moves will increase as well. Wild pokémon can be found as low as Lv.2, and
it is possible to raise a pokémon up to Lv.100.

A pokémon's level is determined by how many experience points it has and its growth rate. The
growth rate formulas are:
     Fast:   0.8L^3                          (800,000 to get to Lv.100)
     Medium: L^3                           (1,000,000 to get to Lv.100)
     Slow:   1.25L^3                       (1,250,000 to get to Lv.100)
     Fading: 1.2L^3 - 15L^2 + 100L - 140   (1,059,860 to get to Lv.100)

Truncating the values given by these formulas determines the minimum number of experience
points necessary to be on a given level L. The total amount of experience points that an
opponent pokémon will give for defeating it is equal to int(T*int(int(int(int(B*L*W)/7)/N)/E)).
Additionally, if E=2, then int(T*int(int(int(int(int(B*L*W)/7)/N)/2)/P)) experience points will
be gained by each non-fainted member of your party, regardless of whether or not they were
active during the battle. In both of these formulas, B is the opponent's base experience (a
fundamental value based on its species), L is the opponent's level, W is the opponent's
wildness (1.5 if used by a trainer, otherwise 1), N is the total number of your pokémon that
were active and did not faint while the opponent was active, E is your Exp.All value (2 if you
are carrying the Exp.All item, 1 if you are not), P is the number of party members you have
that have not fainted, and T is your pokémon's trade value (1.5 if your pokémon is traded,
otherwise 1; a pokémon is considered traded if its ID number does not match your ID number).
Pokémon that have fainted cannot gain experience points, even if they were active before
fainting. Pokémon cannot gain experience in link battles.

Although the actual levels on which you can normally acquire pokémon on range from 2 to 100, it
is theoretically possible for a pokémon's level to be any integer from 0 to 255 (any time it
becomes higher, including during a critical hit, it will be reduced mod 256). It is also
possible to find pokémon on levels higher than 100 (and through level roll over, 0 and 1) via
the Missingno. glitch in Pokémon Red and Blue. To activate the Missingno. glitch, talk to the
old man in Viridian City near the cuttable bush, answer no to his question, and watch him catch
a Weedle. Afterwards, wild pokémon (including the glitch pokémon Missingno.) will appear on the
eastern edges of Cinnabar and Seafoam Islands, and some of these pokémon will have levels
higher than 100.

A pokémon's level can be increased by gaining enough experience points (and is in fact
recalculated each time a pokémon gains experience points or is given a Rare Candy). Using the
Rare Candy item on a pokémon will increase its experience points by the minimum amount needed
to increase its level by 1. Though it will have no effect on Lv.100 pokémon, it will work on
pokémon of higher levels. A Lv.100 pokémon cannot gain experience points, and if a pokémon's
level is greater than 100, it will be reduced to 100 if it gains any experience points via
battling.


***HP***
Short for Hit Points, basically the amount of damage a pokémon can withstand. When a pokémon
has no HP left, it will faint, and you will win a battle when all of your opponent's pokémon
have fainted. Pokémon have two HP values, current and maximum. Current HP is the amount of HP
the pokémon has at any referenced time, since it may have been damaged during the battle and
have less than its maximum possible HP. Maximum HP is supposedly the highest amount a pokémon's
HP can be, but is more of a calibration number for determining how much HP to restore to a
pokémon via HP-restoring methods. In at least one case, it is legally possible for a pokémon to
have greater current HP than maximum HP (for more information, see the in-game differences for
Transform).

Ways that HP can be restored:
     -Healing at a Pokémon Center or rest stop, in which case the current HP of all your party
      members will be made equal to their respective maximum HP values.
     -Using a HP-restoring item, either in battle (where it will count as your turn) or out of
      battle. Items that can restore HP are Fresh Water, Full Restore, Hyper Potion, Lemonade,
      Max Potion, Max Revive, Potion, Rare Candy, Revive, Soda Pop, and Super Potion. (Rare
      Candy is designated to increasing a pokémon's level rather than HP, but a level increase
      usually results in an increase in maximum HP and subsequently current HP, even if the
      pokémon was fainted at the time of use.)
     -By using a move while battling that can restore HP. Absorb, Dream Eater, Leech Life,
      Leech Seed, Mega Drain, Recover, Rest, and Softboiled are the moves that can restore HP,
      and Softboiled can also be used out of battle to heal other party members.

There is also an item, HP Up, which can increase a pokémon's maximum HP but will have no effect
on its current HP.

Using a move is the only available method of HP restoration in link battles.


***Attack***
A pokémon's attack stat is used in calculating how much damage it will do with physical,
damaging attacks.

***Defense***
A pokémon's defense stat is used in calculating how much resistance it has to physical,
damaging attacks.

***Speed***
A pokémon's speed will determine when in a round it will attack in relation to its opponent,
unless one of them uses an altered-priority move. If both pokémon use an increased or a
decreased priority move, turn placement will be determined normally. If both active pokémon
have the same speed, turn placement will be determined randomly.

***Special***
A pokémon's special stat is used in calculating how much damage it will do with as well as how
much resistance it has to special, damaging attacks.


A pokémon's Attack, Defense, Speed, and Special can be increased or decreased by up to six
levels, via the use of certain moves or items. A stat with a level value of N will multiply the
pokémon's base stat by (2+N)/2 if N is positive, or by 2/(2-N) if N is negative (and truncate
afterwards). Actual changes to stat levels happen via addition and subtraction. All of a
pokémon's stat levels will be reset to 0 if it switches out, and the use of Haze by either
pokémon will (among other things) reset the stat levels of both active pokémon to 0.

A pokémon does not have statistical Accuracy or Evasion values, but Accuracy and Evasion
modifiers are taken into consideration by moves that have accuracy values (moves that do not
have accuracy values are unaffected by accuracy and evasion modifiers, and essentially never
miss). Accuracy and Evasion modifiers are also increased in terms of levels, but not on the
same scale as Attack, Defense, Speed, and Special. Whenever a pokémon uses an attack with an
accuracy value, the base accuracy of the move is multiplied by the user's accuracy modifier and
opponent's evasion modifier to determine the move's final accuracy.

The base accuracy of a move with an accuracy value will be multiplied by the user's accuracy
modifier and the opponent's evasion modifier to determine the final accuracy of the move.
The user's accuracy modifier is equal to (3+N)/3 if N is positive, or 3/(3-N) if N is negative.
The opponent's evasion modifier is equal to 3/(3+N) if N is positive, or by (3-N)/3 if N is
negative. Whenever a move with an accuracy value is used, its initial accuracy value is
multiplied by the user's accuracy modifier and the opponent's evasion modifier to determine the
final accuracy of the move.

Stats have level and value caps. A pokémon's stat levels cannot go above +6 or below -6.
Additionally, a pokémon's stat values cannot go above 999 or below 1 (for Accuracy and Evasion
modifiers, a move's accuracy cannot go above 100% or below 0%). If a move that can only cause a
stat level change attempts to change a stat beyond either of these limitations, nothing will
happen, and if a move has a secondary effect that could potentially change a stat beyond its
level or value limitations, the secondary effect will not activate. The stat value changes due
to a burn, paralysis, or (in-game only) badges counts towards stat value caps, but the changes
due to Light Screen and Reflect do not, and as a result may cause roll over.

A pokémon's stats can roll over if they get too high. If a pokémon's attack, defense, or
special reaches 1024 or higher at any time during battle calculations, it will be reduced mod
1024. There is no such rollover associated with speed, though under normal circumstances it is
still subject to the standard stat level and value caps.



D. Status Ailments;
This is a detailed list of the status ailments that a pokémon might be subjected to while
battling. Major status ailments cannot be reset by switching, though minor status ailments can.
A pokémon can't have more than one status ailment at a time (so any major status ailment can
prevented by having another major status ailment), but can simultaneously have one major status
ailment and one minor status ailment. Burn, Freeze, Paralysis, Poison, and Sleep are major
status ailments, and Confusion is a minor status ailment.

If a move that can only inflict a major status ailment does not work for any reason, it will be
the equivolent of a miss, though the gameboy-displayed text message will not claim that. A move
that can only inflict sleep used against a sleeping opponent will result in a notice that the
opponent is already asleep. If a move that can only inflict a major status ailment does not
work for whatever reason (other than the case just mentioned), the opponent will be
"unaffected."

Whenever a calculation is made, the decimal is dropped, so numbers will always be truncated.
The only time this is not true is if a number is calculated to be 0, in which case it is bumped
up to 1.


***Burn***
Effects: The pokémon becomes burned, and loses 1/16th of its maximum HP at the end of each of
its turns in a round. Also, the pokémon's attack is reduced to 50% of its original value,
though this attack reduction is in addition to any stat modifiers that the pokémon may have. If
the pokémon's maximum HP is less than 16, it will lose 1 HP per round.

If the pokémon is burned during a round that it switches in, it will only be subjected to
recurrent burn damage that round if its speed is less than or equal to the opponent's speed. If
the pokémon is burned and is switched in, it will be subjected to recurrent burn damage before
the opponent makes a move if its speed is greater than the opponent's, but after the opponent
makes a move if its speed is less than or equal to the opponent's. If both pokémon switch in
and are burned or poisoned, recurrent damage will be done in order according to their current
speed values.

Recurrent burn damage will be done even if the pokémon knocks itself out with crash damage,
recoil damage, or self-inflicted confusion damage, or by making a substitute before the end of
its turn but will not occur if the burned pokémon knocks out an opponent. Continuing partial
trapping damage is done before recurrent burn damage, and Leech Seed draining is done after
recurrent burn damage.

The attack loss penalty will be ignored during a critical hit, and will be ignored after using
an attack-raising attack, but reimplemented if the pokémon is subsequently hit with a attack-
reducing attack.

Prevention, Cures: A substitute will block secondary burns, and fire types can't be burned by
fire attacks. Rest can cure a burn, but will not cure its attack reduction penalty (though
subsequently using a attack-raising move or switching out will then cure that). Using an
attack-raising move will tenuously negate the attack reduction penalty, but not the burn
status. Haze will temporarily cure the attack reduction penalty if used by the pokémon, and
completely cure the burn if it is used by the opponent. Critical hits will ignore the attack
reduction of a burn.

In-game Differences: Any attack modifiers used against a burned pokémon will cause the attack
reduction due to burn to be ignored.

Stadium Differences: The attack reduction of a burn will be reset by rest. Attack-raising
attacks will not negate the attack loss penalty. A pokémon can rid itself of the burn ailment
by using Haze. A pokémon will not take recurrent burn damage when it switches in.

Moves that can cause a burn: Ember, Fire Blast, Fire Punch, Flamethrower


***Confusion***
Effects: The pokémon receives a confusion duration length of 2-5 turns (chosen randomly), which
is reduced by 1 each time the pokémon attempts to execute an attack. The duration deduction for
confusion occurs immediately before the attempt to execute the move is made, so the pokémon
will effectively be confused for 1-4 turns. When the confusion duration length ends, a notice
that the pokémon is no longer confused will be shown immediately before it attempts to execute
its next attack. While confused, the pokémon will have a 50% chance of attacking itself with a
40-power attack, resulting in min(int(int(40*A*int(2L/5 + 2)/D)/50), 997) + 2 damage to itself
(where A, D, and L are the pokémon's current attack, current defense, and level) instead of
performing its selected attack. If the pokémon's current attack or current defense is greater
than 255, then its attack and its defense will be halved, and halved again (truncating both
times), and those numbers will be used in place of its actual attack and defense values.

The confusion duration length will only be reduced when the pokémon actually attempts to make a
move, so turns spent flinching, fast asleep, frozen solid, recharging, or partially trapped
will not count towards the confusion duration length. Self inflicted confusion damage will not
reset the last move used flag, counts as the last amount of damage done (and can be countered
by the opponent), ignores the effect of Reflect, can never be a critical hit, and will be
absorbed by a substitute. The duration of all moves, other than than Hyper Beam and Rage, that
take more than one turn to fully execute will be disrupted if the user hurts itself due to
confusion. If a move that can only inflict the confusion condition does not work for whatever
reason, it will "fail."

Prevention, Cures: Confusion can be cured by Haze or switching, and a substitute will block
primary confusion. This ailment is temporary.

Stadium Differences: The messages regarding confusion are displayed after the move choice is
shown, allowing both players to see the attempted attack regardless of success. A substitute
will completely protect the user from confusion (though not self-inflicted confusion).

Moves that can cause confusion: Confuse Ray, Confusion, Petal Dance (self-inflicted), Psybeam,
          Supersonic, Thrash (self-inflicted)


***Freeze***
Effects: The pokémon becomes frozen solid indefinately, rendering it unable to attack or select
a move.

Freeze will pause but not disrupt the turn duration of multi-turn moves, Bide, Hyper Beam,
Petal Dance, Rage, and Thrash.

If a frozen pokémon gets defrosted by a fire move before its turn in a round ends, it will be
able to attack during that round. It will attack with the last move it selected, or its topmost
move if it had not selected an attack (selecting an attack but switching out will reset the
attack selection). If at this time the move selected has a current PP count of 0, it will still
be used, and afterwards, its current PP will become 63, and full PP ups will be applied to the
move. Additionally, a frozen pokémon that has not recharged and has its freeze status
eliminated via Haze will remain unable to attack, switch, or do anything, and nothing (not even
getting refrozen and then defrosted by a fire move) will be able to change this.

Prevention, Cures: A substitute will block secondary freeze, and ice types can't be frozen by
ice attacks. The pokémon can be defrosted only if the opponent uses a fire attack or Haze
against it while it is active.

Stadium Differences: You get to select a move while the pokémon is frozen.

Moves that can cause freezing: Blizzard, Ice Beam, Ice Punch


***Paralysis****
Effects: The pokémon becomes paralyzed, reducing its speed to 25% of its original value, though
this speed reduction is in addition to any stat modifiers that the pokémon may have.
Additionally, each time the pokémon attempts to perform an attack, it will have a 25% chance of
being fully paralyzed and not being able to attack.

The speed loss penalty can be negated by using a speed-raising attack, but will be
reimplemented if the pokémon is subsequently hit with a speed-reducing attack. If a pokémon
becomes fully paralyzed during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig or Fly, it will remain semi-
invulnerable until it switches out or successfully executes Dig or Fly. Being fully paralyzed
will not reset the last amount of damage done or last move used flags.

Prevention, Cures: A substitute will block secondary paralysis, and type immunities will
prevent the paralysis possibility of the respective attacks. Rest can cure paralysis, but will
not cure the speed reduction penalty (though subsequently using a speed-raising move or
switching out will then cure that). Speed-increasing moves will temporarily cure the speed
reduction penalty, but not the paralysis status. Haze will temporarily cure the speed reduction
penalty if used by the pokémon, and completely cure paralysis if it is used by the opponent.

In-game Differences: Any speed modifiers used against a paralyzed pokémon will cause the speed
reduction due to paralysis to be ignored.

Stadium Differences: Rest will reset the speed reduction of paralysis. Speed-raising attacks
will not negate the speed loss penalty. A substitute will completely protect the user from
paralysis. A pokémon can completely rid itself of the paralysis ailment by using Haze.

Moves that can cause paralysis: Body Slam, Glare, Lick, Stun Spore, Thunder, Thunder Wave,
          Thunderbolt, Thundershock, Thunderpunch


***Poison***
Effects: The pokémon becomes poisoned, and loses 1/16th of its maximum HP at the end of each of
its turns in a round. If the pokémon's maximum HP is less than 16, it will lose 1 HP per round.

If the pokémon is poisoned during a round that it switches in, it will only be subjected to
recurrent poison damage that round if its speed is less than or equal to the opponent's speed.
If the pokémon is poisoned and is switched in, it will be subjected to recurrent poison damage
before the opponent makes a move if its speed is greater than the opponent's, but after the
opponent makes a move if its speed is less than or equal to the opponent's. If both pokémon
switch in and are burned or poisoned, recurrent damage will be done in order according to their
current speed values.

Recurrent poison damage will be done even if the pokémon knocks itself out with crash damage,
recoil damage, or self-inflicted confusion damage, or by making a substitute before the end of
its turn but will not occur if the poisoned pokémon knocks out an opponent. Continuing partial
trapping damage is done before recurrent poison damage, and Leech Seed draining is done after
recurrent poison damage.

Prevention, Cures: A substitute will prevent poisoning, and poison types can't be poisoned. If
used by the opponent, Haze will cure poisoning.

In-game Differences: Out of battle, a poisoned Pokémon will take 1 HP of damage for every
fourth step you take. The amount of steps that required for the HP to be deducted will be reset
by resetting the game. (No such poison damage is taken while walking around in a colosseum
room.)

Stadium Differences: A pokémon can rid itself of the poison ailment by using Haze. A pokémon
will not take recurrent poison damage when it switches in.

Moves that can cause poisoning: Poison Gas, Poison Sting, Poisonpowder, Sludge, Smog,
          Toxic (badly poisons), Twineedle


***Sleep***
Effects: The pokémon receives a sleep duration length of 1-7 turns (chosen randomly), which is
reduced by 1 each time the pokémon attempts to execute an attack. The duration deduction will
occur immediately before the attempt to execute the move is made, and the pokémon will wake up
when its duration length becomes 0. It will not be able to attack on the same turn that it
wakes up though, so the pokémon will be unable to attack for a total of 1-7 turns. The
countdown duration will not be altered if the pokémon is switched out before it wakes up.

Sleep is required for Dream Eater to work. Sleep will pause but not disrupt the turn duration
of all moves that take more than one turn to fully execute, except for Hyper Beam, for which
the recharge turn will be negated. If pokémon uses an altered attack priority move (Counter,
Quick Attack) during the same round it is put to sleep, the altered priority received by the
move will only be reset on the turn after it wakes up (not even switching can reset this).

Prevention, Cures: Can be cured by Haze, if used by the opponent. This ailment is temporary.

Stadium Differenecs: The pokémon receives a sleep duration of 1-3 turns (chosen randomly).
Also, you get to select a move while the pokémon is asleep. A substitute will protect the user
from primary sleep.

Moves that can cause sleep: Hypnosis, Lovely Kiss, Rest (self-inflicted), Sing, Sleep Powder,
          Spore



E. Type Effectiveness
Each move has a type associated with it, which influences the amount of damage that the move
will do, if it has a power value. The effectiveness of a move with a power against an opponent
pokémon can be summed up with this chart:


      A\Defending
      t \   Types        E       F
      t  \               l       i                               P
      a   \          D   e       g   F           G       N   P   s
      c    \         r   c       h   l   G   G   r       o   o   y       W
      k T   \        a   t   F   t   y   h   r   o       r   i   c   R   a
      i y    \   B   g   r   i   i   i   o   a   u   I   m   s   h   o   t
      n p     \  u   o   i   r   n   n   s   s   n   c   a   o   i   c   e
      g e      \ g   n   c   e   g   g   t   s   d   e   l   n   c   k   r
     /=====================================================================\
     |Bug      | 1 | 1 | 1 |0.5|0.5|0.5|0.5| 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Dragon   | 1 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Electric | 1 |0.5|0.5| 1 | 1 | 2 | 1 |0.5| 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Fire     | 2 |0.5| 1 |0.5| 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 |0.5|0.5|
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Fighting |0.5| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |0.5| 0 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 2 |0.5|0.5| 2 | 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Flying   | 2 | 1 |0.5| 1 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |0.5| 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Ghost    | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Grass    |0.5|0.5| 1 |0.5| 1 |0.5| 1 |0.5| 2 | 1 | 1 |0.5| 1 | 2 | 2 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Ground   |0.5| 1 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 1 |0.5| 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 2 | 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Ice      | 1 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 2 | 2 |0.5| 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |0.5|
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Normal   | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |0.5| 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Poison   | 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |0.5| 2 |0.5| 1 | 1 |0.5| 1 |0.5| 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Psychic  | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 |0.5| 1 | 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Rock     | 2 | 1 | 1 | 2 |0.5| 2 | 1 | 1 |0.5| 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 |
     |---------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
     |Water    | 1 |0.5| 1 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 |0.5| 2 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 |0.5|
     \=====================================================================/


In order to determine the type effectiveness of a move against a pokémon, look at the move's
type in the rows and the pokémon's type in the columns. For example, a water attack used
against a dragon type has a multiplier of 0.5, so it would do half the damage it usually would.
If a pokémon has two types, look at the type effectiveness against both types and multiply the
moves together. For example, a grass attack used against a poison type has a multiplier of 0.5,
and has a multiplier of 2 if used against a water type, so if used against a water/poison type,
the multiplier will be 2 * 0.5 = 1, or just regular damage. The type effectiveness values used
in the BDF are ten times the final type effectiveness value, but the damage amount is divided
by 10 immediately afterwards.

An attack is considered super effective if it has a type multiplier of 2 or 4, and not very
effective if it has a type multiplier of 0.25 or 0.5. If it has a multiplier of 1, it does
regular damage, and if it has a multiplier of 0, it will always miss against the opponent,
though the text message will almost always note that the move "doesn't affect" the opponent.
There is no text message distinction beyond whether or not a type multiplier is 0, between 0
and 1, 1, or greater than 1. Additionally, if a pokémon has a second type and is attacked with
a move that does not result in a type multiplier of 1 (or 10, depending on perspective), the
type effectiveness message associated with the attack will be based solely on the pokémon's
second type.

Stadium Differences:
The type effectiveness messages associated with moves will always take both of a pokémon's
types into account (except regarding immunities, which will always result in a message that the
attempted attack missed).



F. Order of Operations
This is a list that shows the order in which the various operations happen relative to each
other in any one round.

First, determination of which pokémon performs its action first and which performs its action
second in a round occurs. Running away takes priority over switching, which takes priority over
using an item, which takes priority over attempting to attack. If both trainers choose to run
away, it will happen simultaneously and the game will be declared a draw. If both trainers
switch, each trainer will always see their pokémon switched out first. If both trainers use an
item (in an in-game battle of course), each trainer will always see their pokémon affected
first.

If both trainers choose to attack, determination of which pokémon attacks first depends on the
current speed of both pokémon and the priority of the attack selected. If one of the pokémon
has selected an increased (or decreased) priority attack, it will attack first (or last) unless
the opponent has also selected an increased (or decreased) priority attack. If the attack
priority of both the selected attacks is the same, then the pokémon with the higher current
speed will go first. If both pokémon have the same current speed, the game will randomly select
which one goes first.

Provided that neither player chooses to run away, the round will proceed as follows:

Beforehand:
     *All players select an action, including a specific item or attack if possible*

Running away will end the battle, but otherwise the round will proceed:

First pokémon's turn:
     *Sleep duration deduction*
     [First pokémon is frozen solid, fast asleep, or wakes up]
     ([First pokémon must recharge])
     *Disable duration deduction*
     [First pokémon is disabled no more]
     *Confusion duration deduction*
     [First pokémon is confused no more]
     *[First pokémon is fully paralyzed]*
     *[First pokémon hurts itself due to confusion]*
     *PP is deducted from selected attack*
     *[Attack is used]*
     *[Attack misses]*
     *Damage calculation including critical hit*
     *Battle animation*
     *Damage and primary effects of attack*
     [Second pokémon's substitute took the damage]
     [Second pokémon's substitute broke]
     [Critical hit]
     [Type effectiveness of attack]
     [Any flavor text associated with the executed attack]
     ([Second pokémon faints])
     *[Second pokémon's rage builds]*
     *[Secondary effects of attack]*
     *[Recurrent poison/burn damage to first pokémon]*
     *[Recurrent Leech Seed damage to first pokémon]*
     *[Second pokémon flinches]*

Second pokémon's turn:
     *Sleep duration deduction*
     [Second pokémon is frozen solid, fast asleep, or wakes up]
     (Second pokémon must recharge)
     *Disable duration deduction*
     [Second pokémon is disabled no more]
     *Confusion duration deduction*
     [Second pokémon is confused no more]
     *[Second pokémon is fully paralyzed]*
     *[Second pokémon hurts itself due to confusion]*
     *PP is deducted from selected attack*
     *[Attack is used]*
     *[Attack misses]*
     *Damage calculation including critical hit*
     *Battle animation*
     *Damage and primary effects of attack*
     [First pokémon's substitute took the damage]
     [First pokémon's substitute broke]
     [Critical Hit]
     [Type effectiveness of attack]
     [Any flavor text associated with the executed attack]
     ([First pokémon faints])
     *[First pokémon's rage builds]*
     *[Secondary effects of attack]*
     *[Recurrent poison/burn damage to second pokémon]*
     *[Recurrent Leech Seed damage to second pokémon]*

Astericks indicate that the line involves an operation. Parentheses indicate that the line is
a potential battle condition, which may effect the execution of lines below it. Brackets
indicate that the line is a displayed text message. Lines marked with astericks/parentheses as
well as brackets indicate that the line is an operation/condition, and a text message directly
associated with the line is displayed immediately following the operation or condition
(provided that it happened/exists).

Also note that all lines will of course happen only if applicable, since the disable or
confusion duration deductions can only happen if the pokémon actually is disabled or confused,
an attack missing will not result in a battle animation, etc.



G. Moves;

G1. General Information;
A move has four main attributes: type, power, PP, and accuracy.


***Type***
One of the 15 possible types that a move might be. A move's type determines whether it is a
physical or special attack and also changes the effectiveness of the move when used against
pokémon of different types (though this does not apply to moves that do damage but do not have
power values). Also, if the move has a power and the move's type is the same as one of the
user's types, the move will do 50% more damage (this is known as STAB, short for same type
attack bonus).


***Power***
Every move that does damage calculated with the Battle Damage Formula has a base power. Some
moves can do damage despite not having power values.


***PP***
PP is short for power points, and basically represents the number of times you can use the
move. Each move has two PP values, a current value and a maximum value. Current PP is the
amount of PP the pokémon has at any referenced time, since PP will be deducted from moves when
used. Maximum PP is supposedly the highest PP a move can have, but is more of a calibration
number for determining how much PP to restore to a pokémon via PP-restoring methods.

Every time a move is fully executed, 1 PP is deducted from it. If a move has 0 PP, you will not
be allowed to select the attack (though this is bypassed in a couple of cases where the game
automatically selects the attack). In-game, PP can be restored by healing at a Pokémon Center
or use a PP-restoring item (Elixer, Ether, Max Elixer, Max Ether).

The only way to "restore" used PP in a link battle is with the PP roll over glitch. If by some
means the game allows you to use a move with a current PP count of 0, its current PP will
become 63 and it will have max PP ups applied to it after that use. This can happen to any
attack if a pokémon attacks immediately after being defrosted, or to a handful of moves (Bind,
Clamp, Fire Spin, Hyper Beam, Metronome, Mimic, and Wrap) because of the autoselection involved
with partial trapping moves. More detailed information on how it can be done can be found in
the information entry for Freeze, and in the entries of each mentioned move.

When a move is first learned, its maximum PP value will be at its base value. Subsequently, you
can apply up to 3 PP-ups to each move, and each PP-up will increase the move's maximum PP by
20% of its base value (though 61 is the maximum PP of a move with 40 base PP).


***Accuracy***
Accuracy is the probability that the selected move will actually hit the opponent. Multiply an
accuracy value by 2.56, round accordingly, and call that value A. If a randomly generated
number from 0 to 255 is less than A, the move will hit the opponent. The initial accuracy of
the move can be influenced by Accuracy and Evasion modifiers. The execution of certain moves
does not involve an accuracy or evasion check, and such moves essentially never miss.


G2. Ways of Obtaining;
A pokémon can learn a move by Level, Previous Evolution, TM, HM, or Gift.

***Level***
When a pokémon's level reaches certain values, it will learn moves. If the pokémon has less
than 4 moves, it will automatically learn the move, but if it has 4 moves, you will be given
the option of allowing the pokémon to learn the move; you will have to replace one of the
pokémon's current moves because it can't have more than 4 moves at a time. If the pokémon
already knows the move, no acknowledgement that it learns the move at that level will be made,
and if the pokémon gains enough experience at once to skip the level at which it learns a move,
it will not learn it either.

***Previous Evolution***
In a few instances, a pokémon will not be able to learn a move by Level or TM, yet one of its
previous evolutions will, allowing it access to the move. E3 contains a list of moves learnable
in this way.

***TM***
During the course of the game, you will find TMs that will allow you to teach a poé�mon the
move it contains, provided that the selected pokémon is compatible with the move. If the
pokémon already knows the move, the game will not allow you to teach the TM to that pokémon.
There are a total of 50 different TMs, each of which is a one-time use (though it is possible
to obtain multiple copies of some of them).

***HM***
Essentially the same as TMs, but HMs can be used an unlimited number of times (and whose use
out of battle is required to complete the game). Once learned, you will not be allowed to
replace any of the 5 HM moves without using a move deleter (which is only present in GSC).

***Gift***
A move is considered a Gift move if it is a move that can be obtained by receiving a gift
pokémon with that move. Usually such a move can't be learned by any other means. Any of such a
pokémon's evolutions are also considered to learn that move as a Gift move (as opposed to
Previous Evolution).

Two moves can be obtained only from Stadium. A Lv.15 Psyduck with Amnesia can be obtained by
getting all 151 pokémon in Stadium's Hall of Fame. Since it is awarded to you and does not
usually have that move, it is a Gift move. A Pikachu with Surf can be obtained by beating the
R2 Prime Cup at the Master Ball level without saving. The team used for this must contain a
Pikachu and must be completely selected from your gameboy cartridge. Pikachu must be in your
3-member team, but only during the last round. Since Surf is taught to the Pikachu you bring
with you, it is essentially a move learned by HM, though not under normal circumstances.

A pokémon's move set will not be allowed to have the same move more than once, except
temporarily via Mimic.

For a list of pokémon and the moves they can learn, I would recommend White Cat's dexes, found
at http://pokedex.kary.ca/.


G3. Previous Evolution Moves;
This is a list of all moves that can be learned by Previous Evolution but not by chromatic
Level. Moves marked with parentheses can be learned by metallic Level, TM, or Tutor. Moves
marked with brackets can be learned by chromatic TM.

Metapod: Tackle, String Shot
Butterfree: Harden, Tackle, String Shot
Kakuna: Poison Sting, String Shot
Beedrill: Harden, Poison Sting, String Shot
Raichu: Agility, [(Double Team)], (Light Screen), (Quick Attack), Slam, [(Swift)], (Tail whip),
           [(Thunder)], [(Thunderbolt)]
Nidoqueen: Bite, Fury Swipes, Growl
Nidoking: Focus Energy, Fury Attack, [Horn Drill], Leer
Clefable: (Defense Curl), Growl, Light Screen, Pound
Ninetales: (Confuse Ray), Fire Spin, (Flamethrower)
Wigglytuff: [Body Slam], [Double-Edge], Pound, [(Rest)]
Vileplume: (Absorb), [(Solarbeam)]
Arcanine: Agility, Bite, (Flamethrower)
Poliwrath: Amnesia, Bubble, Hydro Pump
Victreebel: Growth, Slam, (Vine Whip)
Cloyster: [(Ice beam)], Leer, Tackle
Exeggutor: Leech Seed, Poisonpowder, [Reflect], [(Solarbeam)], Sleep Powder, Stun Spore
Starmie: Hydro Pump, Light Screen, Minimize, (Recover), [(Swift)]
Gyarados: Splash, Tackle
Vaporeon: Focus Energy, Growl, [Take Down]
Jolteon: Bite, Focus Energy, Growl, [Take Down]
Flareon: Focus Energy, Growl, [Take Down]

Also, Pikachu essentially learns Surf by HM (though under special conditions of course), so in
turn, Raichu essentially learns Surf by Previous HM.


G4. Number of Moves;
The maximum number of moves a pokémon may have at any one time is four, and no pokémon may have
less than one move. Since there is a move deleter in Blackthorn City in the Metallic
generation, it is possible to have any pokémon with only one move by trading it to a metallic
cartridge, deleting the move, and trading back.

There is no move deleter directly available in the Chromatic generation though, and if the move
deleter is not accessible, the minimum number of moves a pokémon can have will not always be
equal to one. For calculating the minimum number of moves a pokémon can have, the minimum
number of level moves it can have is all that needs to be considered, since a pokémon can skip
all of its Previous Evolution, TM, HM, and Gift moves (if the minimum number of moves a pokémon
must have is less than 4, then it will be equal to the minimum number of level moves it can
have, but if the minimum number of moves a pokémon can have is 4, those moves may be obtained
by any means, since they can be simply overwritten with moves not learned by level). Since a
pokémon will not learn a move if it skips the level the move is learned on, the minimum number
of moves a pokémon can have is equal to min(4, I + U + S). I is equal to the initial number of
moves the pokémon has (which by its nature must be at least 1), though if the pokémon's level
is greater than or equal to its evolution level and the pokémon has lower evolutions, then I is
equal to the pokémon's initial number of moves or the initial number of moves of its lower
evolution(s), whichever is lower. U is the number of moves the pokémon learns on levels it
can't skip. To find U, first determine a level K, which is the least K such that F(K)-F(K-1)>E,
where F(K) (read as "F of K", since a pokémon's minimum experience points can be written as a
function of level) is the number of experience points needed to be on level K, and E is the
maximum number of experience points that can be obtained at once. Taking E to be 4387 (from a
traded pokémon singlehandedly surviving your rival's Lv.65 Blastoise in Red or Blue), K is 35
if the pokémon's growth rate is slow, 39 if the pokémon's growth rate is medium or fading, or
43 if the pokémon's growth rate is fast. If the pokémon's level L is less than K, then U is 0,
otherwise, U is the number of level moves the pokémon can learn from level K to level L. If L
is greater than or equal to K, then S is 0 (since the pokémon won't be able to skip any levels
at such values), otherwise, S is determined by the lengths of unskippable move streaks that a
pokémon's level move list experiences. To determine how much of a move streak can be skipped,
find the least N such that F(H-N)-F(J)<E, where H is the highest level in the streak, J is the
lowest level in the streak, and N is a nonnegative integer. Add N to S, and repeat the process
until all move streaks are accounted for. It should be noted that no move streaks in RBY are
unskippable.


G5. Individual Move Information;
This is a detailed list of the type, power, PP, accuracy, and any additional info about the 165
moves in the Chromatic series. Moves that do not have power values will have their power values
listed as ---. Such moves do not do damage based on the BDF (if they do damage at all) and
unless otherwise noted, will be completely unaffected by the user's or opponent's type(s).
Moves that do not have accuracy values will have their accuracy values listed as ---, and
essentially can never miss since there is no accuracy or evasion check performed when such
moves are used. All information given pertains to how the moves function in a gameboy, link
battle. Any differences in Stadium or in-game battles are noted accordingly.

Whenever a calculation is made, the decimal is dropped, so numbers will always be truncated.
The only time this is not true is if a number is calculated to be 0, in which case it is bumped
up to 1.

Any references to PP in this section are to current PP, unless otherwise noted. References to
items are relevant only when items are relevant, but behavior-wise are not presumed to be
strictly different.


***Absorb***
Type: Grass
Power: 20
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Absorb does damage, and up to 50% of the damage done to the opponent is restored to the user.
However, if this attack does 1 point of damage, 1 HP will be restored to the user.

If Absorb breaks a substitute, no HP will be restored to the user. If HP is restored to the
user when its current HP is greater than its maximum HP, its current HP will be set equal to
its maximum HP.

Stadium Differences:
Absorb will always miss if the opponent has a substitute.


***Acid***
Type: Poison
Power: 40
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Acid does damage and has a 9.8% chance of lowering the opponent's defense by 1 level.

Acid will not be able to lower the opponent's defense if it has reached a level of -6 or a
value of 1, or if the opponent has a substitute.

Stadium Differences:
Acid has a 19.9% chance of lowering the opponent's defense by 1 level.


***Acid Armor***
Type: Poison
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: ---

Acid Armor increases the user's defense by 2 levels.

Acid Armor will do nothing if the user's defense has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999.
The effect of Acid Armor is ignored by critical hits.


***Agility***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Agility increases the user's speed by 2 levels.

Agility will do nothing if the user's speed has reached a level +6 or a value of 999.


***Amnesia***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: ---

Amnesia increases the user's special by 2 levels.

Amnesia will do nothing if the user's special has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999. The
effect of Amnesia is ignored by critical hits.


***Aurora Beam***
Type: Ice
Power: 65
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Aurora Beam does damage and has a 9.8% chance of lowering the opponent's attack by 1 level.

Aurora Beam will not be able to lower the opponent's attack if it has reached a level of -6 or
a value of 1, or if the opponent has a substitute.

Stadium Differences:
Aurora Beam has a 29.7% chance of lowering the opponent's attack by 1 level.


***Barrage***
Type: Normal
Power: 15
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 84.4%

Barrage does damage, hitting 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2
times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a
12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Though technically only the first hit can critical hit,
each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Barrage will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Counter will only counter the last hit
of a Barrage attack.


***Barrier***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Barrier increases the user's defense by 2 levels.

Barrier will do nothing if the user's defense has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999. The
effect of Barrier is ignored by critical hits.


***Bide***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

After Bide is selected, the user will be unable to select a move for an idling period of 2-3
turns (chosen randomly), though it will still be able to switch out during this time. On the
following turn, Bide will do damage equal to twice the damage received during the idling
period. Although Bide deals normal damage, type has no effect on the calculated damage
inflicted by this attack. Bide is unaffected by accuracy and evasion modifiers, and can hit
pokémon during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig and Fly.

Bide will count crash damage and an opponent's self-inflicted confusion damage as damage that
can be reversed. Damage absorbed by a Substitute can be reversed for the amount of damage it
would have done to the user had the user not had a substitute. If an opponent damages the user
during the idling period, it must then use an attack that actually misses (as opposed to one
that fails, or making a move, or using an item) in order to reset the last amount of damage
counted towards Bide. For example, if a Nidoking uses Seismic Toss and then Growl during the
same idling period of a Bide attack, Bide will count the turn that Growl was used as if Seismic
Toss was used a second time.

Sleep, freeze, partial trap duration, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of
Bide.

Stadium Differences:
You get to select a move during each of Bide's idling turns. Bide will miss against pokémon
that are in the middle of Dig or Fly.


***Bind***
Type: Normal
Power: 15
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 74.6%

Bind does damage for 2-5 turns. There is a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 2 turns, a
37.5% chance that it will attack for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 4 turns,
and a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 5 turns. Though technically only the first attack
can critical hit, every attack during the duration will do the same amount of damage. During
this turn duration, the opponent will be unable to attack, and if the user of Bind attacks
before the opponent when used, the opponent will be unable to attack during that round as well.

Damage done by Bind's continuing duration is done after recurrent damage. If the user switches
out before the turn duration ends, the opponent will be unable to attack during that turn,
since it did not get to select a move. If the opponent switches out before the turn duration
ends, Bind will automatically be used against the incoming pokémon, deducting an additional PP
from the move. If at such a time Bind has 0 PP, Bind will still be used against the incoming
pokémon. After that use, the current PP of Bind will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be
applied to it.

Even if Bind misses, it will negate the recharge turn normally required for Hyper Beam.
Additionally, if the user of Bind attacks before the user of Hyper Beam during a recharge turn
and the use of Bind misses, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam during
that turn. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterwards
its current PP will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it.

Although Bind can't damage ghost types, it can immobilize them.

In-game differences:
The opponent will get to select a move during each turn of Bind's duration, and will attack
your incoming pokémon with the selected move if you decide to switch before the duration is
over.

Stadium Differences:
You get to select a move during each turn of Bind's duration. If the opponent switches out
before the duration ends, the incoming pokémon will not automatically be attacked. Bind will
negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful.


***Bite***
Type: Normal
Power: 60
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 99.6%

Bite does damage and has a 9.8% chance of causing the opponent to flinch.

Bite can only cause the opponent to flinch if the user attacks before the opponent does. Bite
can't make an opponent with a substitute flinch.


***Blizzard***
Type: Ice
Power: 120
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 89.5%

Blizzard does damage and has a 9.8% chance of freezing the opponent.

Blizzard can't freeze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status ailment.


***Body Slam***
Type: Normal
Power: 85
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Body Slam does damage and has a 29.7% chance of paralyzing its opponent.

Body Slam can't paralyze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status
ailment.


***Bone Club***
Type: Ground
Power: 65
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 84.4%

Bone Club does damage and has a 9.8% chance of causing the opponent to flinch.

Bone Club can only cause the opponent to flinch if the user attacks before the opponent does.
Bone Club can't make an opponent with a substitute flinch.


***Bonemerang***
Type: Ground
Power: 50
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 89.5%

Bonmerang does damage, hitting twice per use. Though technically only the first hit can
critical hit, each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Bonemerang will end immediately if it breaks a substitute.


***Bubble***
Type: Water
Power: 20
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Bubble does damage and has a 9.8% chance of lowering the opponent's speed by 1 level.

Bubble will not be able to lower the opponent's speed if it has reached a level of -6 or a
value of 1, or if the opponent has a substitute.


***Bubblebeam***
Type: Water
Power: 65
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Bubblebeam does damage and has a 9.8% chance of lowering the opponent's speed by 1 level.

Bubblebeam will not be able to lower the opponent's speed if it has reached a level of -6 or a
value of 1, or if the opponent has a substitute.

Stadium Differences:
Bubblebeam has a 29.7% chance of lowering the opponent's speed by 1 level.


***Clamp***
Type: Water
Power: 35
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 74.6%

Clamp does damage for 2-5 turns. There is a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 2 turns, a
37.5% chance that it will attack for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 4 turns,
and a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 5 turns. Though technically only the first attack
can critical hit, every attack during the duration will do the same amount of damage. During
this turn duration, the opponent will be unable to attack, and if the user of Clamp attacks
before the opponent when used, the opponent will be unable to attack during that round as well.

Damage done by Clamp's continuing duration is done after recurrent damage. If the user switches
out before the turn duration ends, the opponent will be unable to attack during that turn. If
the opponent switches out before the turn duration ends, Clamp will automatically be used
against the incoming pokémon, deducting an additional PP from the move. If at such a time Clamp
has 0 PP, Clamp will still be used against the incoming pokémon. After that use, the current PP
of Clamp will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it.

Even if Clamp misses, it will negate the recharge turn normally required for Hyper Beam.
Additionally, if the user of Clamp attacks before the user of Hyper Beam during a recharge turn
and the use of Clamp misses, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam during
that turn. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterwards
its current PP will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it.

In-game differences:
The opponent will get to select a move during each turn of Clamp's duration, and will attack
your incoming pokémon with the selected move if you decide to switch before the duration is
over.

Stadium Differences:
You get to select a move during each turn of Clamp's duration. If the opponent switches out
before the duration ends, the incoming pokémon will not automatically be attacked. Clamp will
negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful.


***Comet Punch***
Type: Normal
Power: 18
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 84.4%

Comet Punch does damage, hitting 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2
times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a
12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Though technically only the first hit can critical hit,
each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Comet Punch will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Counter will only counter the last
hit of a Comet Punch attack.


***Confuse Ray***
Type: Ghost
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Confuse Ray causes the opponent to become confused.

Confuse Ray will fail if the opponent has a substitute or is already confused.


***Confusion***
Type: Psychic
Power: 50
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 99.6%

Confusion does damage and has a 9.8% chance of confusing the opponent.

Confusion can't confuse an opponent that is already confused.

Stadium Differences:
Confusion can't confuse an opponent that has a substitute.


***Constrict***
Type: Normal
Power: 10
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 99.6%

Constrict does damage and has a 9.8% chance of lowering the opponent's speed by 1 level.

Constrict will not be able to lower the opponent's speed if it has reached a level of -6 or a
value of 1, or if the opponent has a substitute.


***Conversion***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Conversion changes the user's current type(s) to the opponent's current type(s).


***Counter***
Type: Fighting
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

If the last amount of damage done before the use of Counter is greater than 0 and was dealt by
a normal or fighting attack, Counter will do twice as much damage to the opponent. Although
Counter deals fighting damage, its type does not alter the amount of damage it inflicts.

Counter is a decresed priority move. If the opponent does not use an decreased priority move
during the round that it is used, Counter will go last regardless of the user's or opponent's
speed. If the opponent also uses an decreased priority move during the same round, the attack
order of the users will be determined normally. If the user is put to sleep or is frozen during
the round that Counter is (or attempts to be) used, Counter's decreased speed priority will not
be reset. Subsequently, it will only be reset on the turn after the user wakes up or is
defrosted, or if the user switches out.

Counter can critical hit, but the actual amount of damage dealt back by it will not be altered
by a critical hit. Counter will only counter the last hit of a multi-hit move and the last
attack of a partial trapping move. Counter will always miss if called by Metronome.

Switching, full paralysis, and using a multi-turn move will not reset the last amount of damage
done, allowing counter to counter itself as well as self-inflicted recoil damage. However, if
both active pokémon use Counter during the same round, both attacks will fail. An attack
absorbed by a Substitute can be countered for the amount of damage it would have done to the
user had the user not had a substitute.

If a a HP-restoring item is used on the opponent during the same round that Counter is used,
Counter will counter the item.

Stadium Differences:
Switching, full paralysis, and using a multi-turn move reset the last amount of damage done, so
Counter can't counter itself or self-inflicted recoil damage if the opponent does not make a
move on its following turn.


***Crabhammer***
Type: Water
Power: 90
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 84.4%

Crabhammer does damage, and has a high critical hit ratio.


***Cut***
Type: Normal
Power: 50
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 94.5%

Cut does damage.


***Defense Curl***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: ---

Defense Curl increases the user's defense by 1 level.

Defense Curl will do nothing if the user's defense has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999.
The effect of Defense Curl is ignored by critical hits.


***Dig***
Type: Ground
Power: 100
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

On the turn that Dig is selected, the user will dig underground, where the only attacks it
can't avoid are Bide, Swift, and Transform. On the following turn, Dig will do damage, PP will
be deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Dig is selected, the user
won't be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed.

If Dig is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the
last move used. If the opponent uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user digs
underground, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Dig
(or fail if it can't).

Confusion and full paralysis will disrupt Dig. Additionally, if the user is fully paralyzed
during the mostly-invulnerable turn of Dig, the mostly-invulnerable part will not be reset
until the user switches out or fully executes Dig or Fly.

Stadium Differences:
Dig will allow the user to avoid damage reversed by Bide. Full paralysis will reset the mostly-
invulnerable part of Dig. Mirror Move will copy Dig on either of the turns it takes to execute.


***Disable***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 54.7%

Disable randomly selects one move that is in the opponent's current move set and whose current
PP is greater than 0, and gives it a randomly chosen disable duration length of 1-8, which is
reduced by 1 each time the pokémon attempts to execute an attack. While the move is disabled, a
message of "disabled!" will appear in place of the disabled move's PP, and the opponent will be
unable to use the move until the round after Disable wears off (attempting to select the move
will just result in a notice that the move is disabled).

If the opponent does manage to select the move (such as if it knows the move twice because of
Mimic, or if the user is faster than the opponent and disables the attack that the opponent was
going to use during that round) and attempts to execute it before the disable duration is over,
it will only result in a wasted turn and a message that the move is disabled. Since the check
to see if a move is disabled happens after the duration reduction, it is possible to disable
the move the opponent was about to use for only 1 turn and as a result have Disable end
immediately, still allowing the opponent to use said move during that round. It is also
possible for the opponent to still use the disabled move if it is called via Metronome or
Mirror Move.

If the opponent has only one move and that move is successfully disabled, it will use Struggle
until it can select its move again. Disable will fail if the opponent has no PP for any of its
moves.

Turns spent flinching, fast asleep, frozen solid, recharging, or partially trapped will not
count towards the disable duration length.

Even if unsuccessful (for any reason), using Disable against a pokémon using Rage will cause
its rage to build.

Stadium Differences:
Disable will cause a pokémon's rage to build only if successful. The disabled move's PP is not
replaced with a "disabled!" message, though attempting to select the move will still result in
a notice that the move is disabled.


***Dizzy Punch***
Type: Normal
Power: 70
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Dizzy Punch does damage.


***Double Kick***
Type: Fighting
Power: 30
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Double Kick does damage, hitting twice per use. Though technically only the first hit can
critical hit, each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Double Kick will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Counter will only counter the last
hit of a Double Kick attack.


***Double Team***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: ---

Double Team increases the user's evasion by 1 level.

Double Team will do nothing if the user's evasion has reached a level of +6.


***Double-Edge***
Type: Normal
Power: 100
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Double-Edge does damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to 25% of the damage done to
the opponent.

If the user of Double-Edge attacks first and faints itself due to recoil damage, the opponent
will not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. However, the user will
still be subject to recurrent damage.

Self-inflicted recoil damage from Double-Edge from the previous turn can be countered if the
opponent does not make a move on the following turn. If Double-Edge breaks a substitute, the
user will take no recoil damage.

Stadium Differences:
No recoil damage is taken if Double-Edge knocks out an opponent.


***Doubleslap***
Type: Normal
Power: 15
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 84.4%

Doubleslap does damage, hitting 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2
times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a
12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Though technically only the first hit can critical hit,
each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Doubleslap will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Counter will only counter the last
hit of a Doubleslap attack.


***Dragon Rage***
Type: Dragon
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Unless it misses, Dragon Rage will always do 40 points of dragon damage to the opponent. Its
type will not alter the amount of damage it inflicts.


***Dream Eater***
Type: Psychic
Power: 100
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Dream Eater does damage, but only if the opponent is asleep. Up to 50% of the damage done to
the opponent is restored to the user. However, if this attack does 1 point of damage, 1 HP will
be restored to the user.

If Dream Eater breaks a substitute, no HP will be restored to the user. If HP is restored to
the user when its current HP is greater than its maximum HP, its current HP will be set equal
to its maximum HP.

Dream Eater will miss if the opponent is not asleep.

Stadium Differences:
Dream Eater will always miss if the opponent has a substitute.


***Drill Peck***
Type: Flying
Power: 80
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Drill Peck does damage.


***Earthquake***
Type: Ground
Power: 100
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Earthquake does damage.


***Egg Bomb***
Type: Normal
Power: 100
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 74.6%

Egg Bomb does damage.


***Ember***
Type: Fire
Power: 40
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 99.6%

Ember does damage and has a 9.8% chance of burning the opponent.

Ember can't burn an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status ailment.


***Explosion***
Type: Normal
Power: 170
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 99.6%

Explosion does damage, and causes the user to faint. Though its power is 170, the opponent's
defense will be halved when damage from this attack is calculated, giving it an effective power
of 340. The game will bump 0 up to 1 to avoid infinite damage, so Explosion will then
effectively have a power of 170 if used against an opponent with a defense value of 1.

If Explosion breaks an opponent's substitute, the user will not faint, though its image will be
replaced by a blank image. Additionally, if the user of Explosion had a substitute at the time
of such a situation, uses Substitute later, or switches out, its regular image will once again
become visible.

If the user of Explosion attacks first and faints itself, the opponent will not attack or be
subjected to recurrent damage during that round.

Stadium Differences:
If Explosion breaks an opponent's substitute, the user will faint.


***Fire Blast***
Type: Fire
Power: 120
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 84.4%

Fire Blast does damage and has a 29.7% chance of burning the opponent.

Fire Blast can't burn an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status ailment.


***Fire Punch***
Type: Fire
Power: 75
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Fire Punch does damage and has a 9.8% chance of burning the opponent.

Fire Punch can't burn an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status ailment.


***Fire Spin***
Type: Fire
Power: 15
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 69.5%

Fire Spin does damage for 2-5 turns. There is a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 2 turns, a
37.5% chance that it will attack for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 4 turns,
and a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 5 turns. Though technically only the first attack
can critical hit, every attack during the duration will do the same amount of damage. During
this turn duration, the opponent will be unable to attack, and if the user of Fire Spin attacks
before the opponent when used, the opponent will be unable to attack during that round as well.

Damage done by Fire Spin's continuing duration is done after recurrent damage. If the user
switches out before the turn duration ends, the opponent will be unable to attack during that
turn. If the opponent switches out before the turn duration ends, Fire Spin will automatically
be used against the incoming pokémon, deducting an additional PP from the move. If at such a
time Fire Spin has 0 PP, Fire Spin will still be used against the incoming pokémon. After that
use, the current PP of Fire Spin will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it.

Even if Fire Spin misses, it will negate the recharge turn normally required for Hyper Beam.
Additionally, if the user of Fire Spin attacks before the user of Hyper Beam during a recharge
turn and the use of Fire Spin misses, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam
during that turn. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and
afterwards its current PP will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it.

In-game differences:
The opponent will get to select a move during each turn of Fire Spin's duration, and will
attack your incoming pokémon with the selected move if you decide to switch before the duration
is over.

Stadium Differences:
You get to select a move during each turn of Fire Spin's duration. If the opponent switches out
before the duration ends, the incoming pokémon will not automatically be attacked. Fire Spin
will negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful.


***Fissure***
Type: Ground
Power: ---
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 29.7%

Fissure does damage equal to the opponent's current HP. Fissure will break a substitute
on contact, and can be countered for infinite damage on the turn it breaks a substitute.

Fissure will not affect an opponent whose current speed is greater than the user's current speed.


***Flamethrower***
Type: Fire
Power: 95
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Flamethrower does damage and has a 9.8% chance of burning the opponent.

Flamethrower can't burn an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status
ailment.


***Flash***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 69.5%

Flash decreases the opponent's accuracy by 1 level.

Flash will do nothing if the opponent's accuracy level is at -6, and will fail if the opponent
has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist.


***Fly***
Type: Flying
Power: 70
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 94.5%

On the turn that Fly is selected, the user will fly up high, where the only attacks it can't
avoid are Bide, Swift, and Transform. On the following turn, Fly will do damage, PP will be
deducted from it, and it will count as the last move used. Once Fly is selected, the user won't
be able to switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed.

If Fly is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as the
last move used. If the opponent uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user flys up high,
Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Fly (or fail if
it can't).

Full paralysis and getting hurt due to confusion will disrupt Fly. Additionally, if the user is
fully paralyzed during the mostly-invulnerable turn of Dig, the mostly-invulnerable part will
not be reset until the user switches out or fully executes Dig or Fly.

Stadium Differences:
Fly will allow the user to avoid damage reversed by Bide. Full paralysis will reset the mostly-
invulnerable part of Fly. Mirror Move will copy Fly on either of the turns it takes to execute.


***Focus Energy***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Focus Energy quarters the probability of the user scoring a critical hit.

The effect of Focus Energy can only be removed by switching or Haze. Focus Energy will fail if
the user is already under its effect.

Stadium Differences:
Focus Energy works properly; it quadruples the probability of the user scoring a critical hit.


***Fury Attack***
Type: Normal
Power: 15
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 84.4%

Fury Attack does damage, hitting 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2
times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a
12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Though technically only the first hit can critical hit,
each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Fury Attack will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Counter will only counter the last
hit of a Fury Attack attack.


***Fury Swipes***
Type: Normal
Power: 18
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 79.7%

Fury Swipes does damage, hitting 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2
times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a
12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Though technically only the first hit can critical hit,
each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Fury Swipes will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Counter will only counter the last
hit of a Fury Swipes attack.


***Glare***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 74.6%

Glare paralyzes the opponent.

Glare can't affect an opponent that already has a major status ailment.

Stadium:
Glare can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.


***Growl***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: 99.6%

Growl decreases the opponent's attack by 1 level.

Growl will do nothing if the opponent's attack has reached a level of -6 or a value of 1, and
will fail if the opponent has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist. The effect of Growl
is ignored by critical hits.


***Growth***
Type: Grass
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: ---

Growth increases the user's special by 1 level.

Growth will do nothing if the user's special has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999. The
effect of Growth is ignored by critical hits.


***Guillotine***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 29.7%

Guillotine does damage equal to the opponent's current HP. Guillotine will break a substitute
on contact, and can be countered for infinite damage on the turn it breaks a substitute.

Guillotine will not affect an opponent whose current speed is greater than the user's current
speed.


***Gust***
Type: Normal
Power: 40
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 99.6%

Gust does damage.


***Harden***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Harden increases the user's defense by 1 level.

Harden will do nothing if the user's defense has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999. The
effect of Harden is ignored by critical hits.


***Haze***
Type: Ice
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Haze resets the stat levels of both active pokémon to 0 and removes the statistic reductions
due to burns and paralysis as well as the effects of Focus Energy, Leech Seed, Light Screen,
Mist, Reflect, confusion, and the cumulative nature of Toxic from both active pokémon. In
addition, Haze removes any major status ailments from the opponent.

Haze does not remove any major status ailments that the user has, does not change the generic
Minimize graphic back to the pokémon's regular image, and does not reset either pokémon's
current type(s), current move(s), or current species.

If a frozen pokémon that has not recharged from Hyper Beam has its freeze status eliminated via
Haze, it will remain unable to attack, switch, or do anything else, and nothing will then be
able to change this.

Stadium Differences:
Haze eliminates any major status ailments that the user has.


***Headbutt***
Type: Normal
Power: 70
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Headbutt does damage and has a 29.7% chance of causing the opponent to flinch.

Headbutt can only cause the opponent to flinch if the user attacks before the opponent does.
Headbutt can't make an opponent with a substitute flinch.


***Hi Jump Kick***
Type: Fighting
Power: 85
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 89.5%

Hi Jump Kick does damage. If this attack misses, the user will take 1 point of crash damage.
Since all attacks that do 0 damage miss, Hi Jump Kick will always miss if used against a ghost
type.

If the user of Hi Jump Kick attacks first and faints itself due to crash damage, the opponent
will not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. However, the user will
still be subject to recurrent damage.

The crash damage from Hi Jump Kick can be reversed by Bide or Counter.


***Horn Attack***
Type: Normal
Power: 65
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 99.6%

Horn Attack does damage.


***Horn Drill***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 29.7%

Horn Drill does damage equal to the opponent's current HP. Horn Drill will break a substitute
on contact, and can be countered for infinite damage if and when it breaks a substitute.

Horn Drill will not affect an opponent whose current speed is greater than the user's current
speed.


***Hydro Pump***
Type: Water
Power: 120
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 79.7%

Hydro Pump does damage.


***Hyper Beam***
Type: Normal
Power: 150
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 89.5%

Hyper Beam does damage. A recharge turn is required on the turn after damage is done, during
which no action may be performed.

Hyper Beam will not require a recharge turn if it misses, breaks a substitute, or faints the
opponent, or if the user is targetted by a partial trapping move (even if it misses), flinches,
or is put to sleep after the attack but before the recharge turn. However, freeze does not
negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam. If the user is confused, the recharge turn of Hyper
Beam will not count towards the number of turns the user will remain confused.

In a round where the opponent attacks before a user which must recharge, if the opponent uses a
partial trapping move that misses, the user will automatically use Hyper Beam during that turn.
If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterwards its PP
will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it.

If a frozen pokémon that has not recharged gets defrosted via Haze, it will remain unable to
attack, switch, or do anything, and nothing (not even getting refrozen and then defrosted by a
fire move) will be able to change this.

Stadium Differences:
Hyper Beam requires a recharge turn every time it is used.


***Hyper Fang***
Type: Normal
Power: 80
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 89.5%

Hyper Fang does damage and has a 9.8% chance of causing the opponent to flinch.

Hyper Fang can only cause the opponent to flinch if the user attacks before the opponent does.
Hyper Fang can't make an opponent with a substitute flinch.


***Hypnosis***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 59.8%

Hypnosis puts the opponent to sleep.

Hypnosis can't affect an opponent that already has a major status ailment.

Stadium Differences:
Hypnosis can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.


***Ice Beam***
Type: Ice
Power: 95
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Ice Beam does damage and has a 9.8% chance of freezing the opponent

Ice Beam can't freeze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status ailment.


***Ice Punch***
Type: Ice
Power: 75
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Ice Punch does damage and has a 9.8% chance of freezing the opponent.

Ice Punch can't freeze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status
ailment.


***Jump Kick***
Type: Fighting
Power: 70
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 94.5%

Jump Kick does damage. If this attack misses, the user will take 1 point of crash damage. Since
all attacks that do 0 damage miss, Jump Kick will always miss if used against a ghost type.

If the user of Jump Kick attacks first and faints itself due to crash damage, the opponent will
not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. However, the user will still
be subject to recurrent damage.

The crash damage from Jump Kick can be reversed by Bide or Counter.


***Karate Chop***
Type: Normal
Power: 50
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 99.6%

Karate Chop does damage, and has a high critical hit ratio.


***Kinesis***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 79.7%

Kinesis decreases the opponent's accuracy by 1 level.

Kinesis will do nothing if the opponent's accuracy level is at -6, and will fail if the
opponent has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist.


***Leech Life***
Type: Bug
Power: 20
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Leech Life does damage, and up to 50% of the damage done to the opponent is restored to the
user. However, if this attack does 1 point of damage, 1 HP will be restored to the user.

If Leech Life breaks a substitute, no HP will be restored to the user.  If HP is restored to
the user when its current HP is greater than its maximum HP, its current HP will be set equal
to its maximum HP.

Stadium Differences:
Leech Life will always miss if the opponent has a substitute.


***Leech Seed***
Type: Grass
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 89.5%

Leech Seed plants a seed on the opponent. At the end of each of its turns that it is under the
effect of Leech Seed, 1/16th of the opponent's HP will be drained, and the same amount of HP
will be restored to your active pokémon (even if it was not the pokémon that originally used
the attack). Recurrent Leech Seed draining will not occur if the seeded pokémon knocks out an
opponent. Unlike other types of damage, the recurrent damage done by Leech Seed can exceed the
opponent's current HP.

If the opponent has less than 16 HP, Leech Seed will drain 1 HP per turn. Leech Seed draining
will occur even if the seeded pokémon knocks itself out with crash damage, recoil damage, or
self-inflicted confusion damage, or by making a substitute before the end of its turn. Draining
from Leech Seed is done after continuing partial trapping damage and recurrent poison or burn
damage. Leech Seed can be removed by Haze or switching. If the opponent is seeded during a
round that it switches in, it will take recurrent damage during that round, but only if its
speed is less than or equal to the user's speed.

If the opponent is also under the effect of Toxic, Leech Seed will increase the N value of
of Toxic by 1 per turn. If the current HP of the recepient of Leech Seed's HP-restoring effect
is greater than its maximum HP, its current HP will be set equal to its maximum HP.

Leech Seed will not work against grass types.

Stadium Differences:
Leech Seed will not work against a substitute.


***Leer***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Leer decreases the opponent's defense by 1 level.

Leer will do nothing if the opponent's defense has reached a level of -6 or a value of 1, and
will fail if the opponent has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist. The effect of Leer
is ignored by critical hits.


***Lick***
Type: Ghost
Power: 20
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Lick does damage and has a 29.7% chance of paralyzing its opponent.

Lick can't paralyze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status ailment.


***Light Screen***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Light Screen doubles the user's special when the opponent damages the user with a special
attack that has a power.

Light Screen will fail if the user is already under its effect. The effect of Light Screen is
ignored by critical hits. If Light Screen causes the user's special to reach 1024 or higher at
any time during battle calculations, it will be reduced mod 1024.


***Lovely Kiss***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 74.6%

Lovely Kiss puts the opponent to sleep.

Lovely Kiss can't affect an opponent that already has a major status ailment.

Stadium Differences:
Lovely Kiss can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.


***Low Kick***
Type: Fighting
Power: 50
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 89.5%

Low Kick does damage and has a 29.7% chance of causing the opponent to flinch.

Low Kick can only cause the opponent to flinch if the user attacks before the opponent does.
Low Kick can't make an opponent with a substitute flinch.


***Meditate***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Meditate increases the user's attack by 1 level.

Meditate will do nothing if the user's attack has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999. The
effect of Meditate is ignored by critical hits.


***Mega Drain***
Type: Grass
Power: 40
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Mega Drain does damage, and up to 50% of the damage done to the opponent is restored to the
user. However, if this attack does 1 point of damage, 1 HP will be restored to the user.

If Mega Drain breaks a substitute, no HP will be restored to the user. If HP is restored to the
user when its current HP is greater than its maximum HP, its current HP will be set equal to
its maximum HP.

Stadium Differences:
Mega Drain will always miss if the opponent has a substitute.


***Mega Kick***
Type: Normal
Power: 120
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 74.6%

Mega Kick does damage.


***Mega Punch***
Type: Normal
Power: 80
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 84.4%

Mega Punch does damage.


***Metronome***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: ---

Metronome randomly selects one attack other than Metronome and Struggle, and fully executes the
attack. An attack called by Metronome in this way counts as the last move used.

If Metronome successfully calls Hyper Beam or a partial trapping move and has 0 PP before the
move fully executes, its PP can roll over in the same manner as the move is called. If
Metronome calls Counter, it will always miss. A pokémon will be able to use a move that is
disabled if called via Metronome.


***Mimic***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Mimic randomly copies one of the opponent's current attacks and its maximum PP. The user will
retain the copied attack until it faints or is switched out, or the battle ends. There are no
restrictions on what Mimic can copy (though in practice, Mimic can't copy Struggle because it
is not a normally selectable move).

If Mimic copies a partial trapping move, and if the opponent switches out when its PP is 0 and
before its duration is over, the current PP of the move will roll over to 63 and full PP ups
will be applied to it. Mimic will retain the move's current PP if the user switches out, and
full PP ups will be applied to any moves that Mimic subsequently copies.

In-game Differences:
Mimic allows you to see the opponent's moveset and select the move to copy.

Stadium Differences:
Mimic will not copy a move's maximum PP.


***Minimize***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: ---

Minimize increases the user's evasion by 1 level and replaces the user's regular image with a
tiny, generic image until the user faints or is switched out, or the battle ends.

Minimize will do nothing if the user's evasion has reached a level of +6.


***Mirror Move***
Type: Flying
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: ---

Mirror Move causes the user to use the last move that the opponent used. An attack called by
Mirror Move in this way counts as the last move used.

Mirror Move will fail if the opponent did not make a move selection in the round before the use
of Mirror Move, switches out during the round Mirror Move is used, or if the opponent's last
move used was Mirror Move.

Paralysis, confusion, recharging, and building up for a multi turn move have no effect to the
last move used. If Mirror Move is used against an opponent that was fully paralyzed or hurt
itself right before its use, Mirror Move will still use the last move that the opponent used.
If Mirror Move is used during the first turn of a multi-turn move, Mirror Move will use the
move that the opponent used before that move (or fail if no move was previously made).

A pokémon will be able to use a move that is disabled if it is called via Mirror Move.

Stadium Differences:
Mirror Move will copy multi-turn moves during either of the turns they take to execute.


***Mist***
Type: Ice
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Mist prevents the effects of primary stat modifications inflicted by the opponent. If a move
used by the opponent could only cause a stat change (such as Growl or Kinesis), that move will
fail. However, Mist will have no effect on side effect stat modifiers used by the opponent,
such as defense reducing via Acid or special reducing via Psychic.

Mist does not remove any stat modifiers already in effect, does not prevent the stat
modifications associated with burns or paralysis, and does not prevent the user from
successfully using stat modifiers. The effect of Mist can only be removed by switching or Haze.

Mist will fail if the user is already under its effect.


***Night Shade***
Type: Ghost
Power: ---
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Night Shade does damage equal to the user's level. Although Night Shade deals ghost damage, its
type does not alter the amount of damage it inflicts.


***Pay Day***
Type: Normal
Power: 40
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Pay Day does damage, and each use scatters coins on the ground with a value equal to twice the
user's level. These coins can't be collected.

In-game Differences:
Coins scattered by Pay Day are picked up if you win the battle.


***Peck***
Type: Flying
Power: 35
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 99.6%

Peck does damage.


***Petal Dance***
Type: Grass
Power: 70
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Petal Dance does damage for 3-4 (chosen randomly) turns. Once used (even if it misses on the
turn of its use), the user will only be able to use Petal Dance, and will not be able to switch
out. At the end of this duration, the user will become confused.

If the Petal Dance duration is disrupted (such as by full paralysis or hurting itself due to
confusion), it will immediately end. The user will only become confused if Petal Dance is fully
executed, without its duration being disrupted. Sleep, freeze, partial trapping, and flinching
will pause but not disrupt the duration of Petal Dance.

Stadium Differences:
After the duration of Petal Dance ends, there will be a notice that the user becomes confused.


***Pin Missile***
Type: Bug
Power: 14
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 84.4%

Pin Missile does damage, hitting 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2
times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a
12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Though technically only the first hit can critical hit,
each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Pin Missile will end immediately if it breaks a substitute.


***Poison Gas***
Type: Poison
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: 54.7%

Poison Gas poisons the opponent.

Poison Gas can't affect an opponent that has a substitute, already has a major status ailment,
or is a poison type.


***Poison Sting***
Type: Poison
Power: 15
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 99.6%

Poison Sting does damage and has a 19.9% chance of poisoning the opponent.

Poison Sting can't poison an opponent that has a substitute, already has a major status
ailment, or is a poison type.


***Poisonpowder***
Type: Poison
Power: ---
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 74.6%

Poisonpowder poisons the opponent.

Poisonpowder can't affect an opponent that has a substitute, already has a major status
ailment, or is a poison type.


***Pound***
Type: Normal
Power: 40
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 99.6%

Pound does damage.


***Psybeam***
Type: Psychic
Power: 65
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Psybeam does damage and has a 9.8% chance of confusing the opponent.

Psybeam can't confuse an opponent that is already confused.

Stadium Differences:
Psybeam can't confuse an opponent that has a substitute.


***Psychic***
Type: Psychic
Power: 90
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Psychic does damage and has a 29.7% chance of lowering the opponent's special by 1 level.

Psychic will not be able to lower the opponent's special if it has a stat level of -6 or a
value of 1, or if the opponent has a substitute.


***Psywave***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 79.7%

Psywave causes a random amount of damage. The minimum damage it can do is 1, and the maximum
damage it can do is less than 1.5 times the user's level. And yes, the game will freeze if a
Lv.1 pokémon uses this attack.


***Quick Attack***
Type: Normal
Power: 40
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Quick Attack does damage, and is an increased priority move. If the opponent does not use an
increased priority move during the round that it is used, Quick Attack will go first regardless
of the user's or opponent's speed. If the opponent also uses an increased priority move during
the same round that the user uses Quick Attack, the attack order of the users will be
determined normally. If the user is put to sleep or frozen during the round that Quick Attack
is (or attempts to be) used, Quick Attack's increased speed priority will not be reset.
Subsequently, it will only be reset on the turn after the user wakes up or is defrosted, or if
the user switches out.


***Rage***
Type: Normal
Power: 20
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Rage does damage. After Rage is used, it will not be possible to do anything other than let the
user use Rage, and it will not stop using Rage until it faints or the battle ends. Every time
the user is damaged by a hit or is targetted by Disable (even if it misses or fails), its
attack level will increase by 1. Rage will use 1 PP when selected, but not use any PP on any
subsequent turns.

If Rage misses during the turn it is selected, its secondary effects will not activate. If Rage
misses due to an accuracy or evasion check when its decision-removing effect is active, the
accuracy of Rage will subsequently become 0.4%. The duration of Rage will be paused but not
disrupted by anything, including sleep, freeze, partial trapping, flinching, or if the user
hurts itself due to confusion.

Rage will not attempt to increase the user's attack if it has reached a level of +6, and will
not successfully increase the user's attack if it has reached a value of 999.

Stadium Differences:
Disable will cause a pokémon's rage to build only if successful.


***Razor Leaf***
Type: Grass
Power: 55
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 94.5%

Razor Leaf does damage, and has a high critical hit ratio.


***Razor Wind***
Type: Normal
Power: 80
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 74.6%

Razor Wind does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than say that the user created a
whirlwind. On the following turn, Razor Wind will do damage, PP will be deducted from it, and
it will count as the last move used. Once Razor Wind is selected, the user won't be able to
switch out until it is disrupted or fully executed.

If Razor Wind is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as
the last move used. If the opponent uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user creates a
whirlwind, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Razor
Wind (or fail if it can't).

Sleep, freeze, partial trapping, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Razor
Wind.

Stadium Differences:
Mirror Move will copy Razor Wind on either of the turns it takes to execute.


***Recover***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: ---

Recover restores up to 50% of the user's current HP.

Recover will fail if the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0, or if
(user's maximum HP - user's current HP) mod 256 = 255. If the user's current HP is greater than
its maximum HP, Recover will set the user's current HP to equal its maximum HP.

Stadium Differences:
Recover will fail only when the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0.


***Reflect***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: ---

Reflect doubles the user's defense when the opponent damages the user with a physical attack
that has a power.

Reflect will fail if the user is already under its effect. The effect of Reflect is ignored by
self-inflicted confusion damage and critical hits. If Reflect causes the user's defense to
reach 1024 or higher at any time during battle calculations, it will be reduced mod 1024.


***Rest***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: ---

Rest restores all of the user's current HP, and makes the user fall asleep. The user will be
asleep for one turn, wake up on the next turn, and then be able to attack after that. The sleep
countdown of Rest is not reset by switching.

Since the user falls asleep, it will be cured of any major status ailments it had prior to the
use of Rest, but Rest will not reset the stat reductions caused by paralysis or burns, will not
reset the cumulative nature of Toxic, and will not count towards turns confused.

Rest will fail if the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0, or if
(user's maximum HP - user's current HP) mod 256 = 255. If the user's current HP is greater than
its maximum HP, Rest will set the user's current HP to equal its maximum HP and make the user
fall asleep.

Stadium Differences:
Rest will fail only when the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0. Rest
will reset the cumulative nature of Toxic and the stat drops due to paralysis and burns.


***Roar***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Roar will never affect the opponent.

In-game Differences:
Roar can be used to automatically end wild pokémon battles.


***Rock Slide***
Type: Rock
Power: 75
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 89.5%

Rock Slide does damage.


***Rock Throw***
Type: Rock
Power: 50
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 64.5%

Rock Throw does damage.


***Rolling Kick***
Type: Fighting
Power: 60
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 84.4%

Rolling Kick does damage and has a 29.7% chance of causing the opponent to flinch.

Rolling Kick can only cause the opponent to flinch if the user attacks before the opponent
does. Rolling Kick can't make an opponent with a substitute flinch.


***Sand-Attack***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Sand-Attack decreases the opponent's accuracy by 1 level.

Sand-Attack will do nothing if the opponent's accuracy level is at -6, and will fail if the
opponent has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist.


***Scratch***
Type: Normal
Power: 40
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 99.6%

Scratch does damage.


***Screech***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: 84.4%

Screech decreases the opponent's defense by 2 levels.

Screech will do nothing if the opponent's attack has reached a level of -6 or a value of 1, and
will fail if the opponent has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist. The effect of
Screech is ignored by critical hits.


***Seismic Toss***
Type: Fighting
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Seismic Toss does damage equal to the user's level. Although Seismic Toss deals fighting
damage, its type does not alter the amount of damage it inflicts.


***Selfdestruct***
Type: Normal
Power: 130
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 99.6%

Selfdestruct does damage, and causes the user to faint. Though its power is listed as 130, the
opponent's defense will be halved when damage from this attack is calculated, giving it an
effective power of 260. The game will bump 0 up to 1 to avoid infinite damage, so Selfdestruct
will then effectively have a power of 130 if used against an opponent with a defense value of
1.

If Selfdestruct breaks an opponent's substitute, the user will not faint, though its image will
be replaced by a blank image. Additionally, if the user of Selfdestruct had a substitute at the
time of such a situation, uses Substitute later, or switches out, its regular image will once
again become visible.

If the user of Selfdestruct attacks first and faints itself, the opponent will not attack or be
subjected to recurrent damage during that round.

Stadium Differences:
If Selfdestruct breaks an opponent's substitute, the user will faint.


***Sharpen***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Sharpen increases the user's attack by 1 level.

Sharpen will do nothing if the user's attack has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999. The
effect of Sharpen is ignored by critical hits.


***Sing***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 54.7%

Sing puts the opponent to sleep.

Sing will not affect an opponent that already has a major status ailment.

Stadium Differences:
Sing can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.


***Skull Bash***
Type: Normal
Power: 100
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Skull Bash does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than say that the user lowered its
head. On the following turn, Skull Bash will do damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it
will count as the last move used. Once Skull Bash is selected, the user won't be able to switch
out until it is disrupted or fully executed.

If Skull Bash is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as
the last move used. If the opponent uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user lowers its
head, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Skull Bash
(or fail if it can't).

Sleep, freeze, partial trapping, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Skull
Bash.

Stadium:
Mirror Move will copy Skull Bash on either of the turns it takes to execute.


***Sky Attack***
Type: Flying
Power: 140
PP: 5-8
Accuracy: 89.5%

Sky Attack does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than say that the user is glowing. On
the following turn, Sky Attack will do damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it will count
as the last move used. Once Sky Attack is selected, the user won't be able to switch out until
it is disrupted or fully executed.

If Sky Attack is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as
the last move used. If the opponent uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user is glowing,
Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using Sky Attack (or
fail if it can't).

Sleep, freeze, partial trapping, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of Sky
Attack.

Stadium Differences:
Mirror Move will copy Sky Attack on either of the turns it takes to execute.


***Slam***
Type: Normal
Power: 80
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 74.6%

Slam does damage.


***Slash***
Type: Normal
Power: 70
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Slash does damage, and has a high critical hit ratio.


***Sleep Powder***
Type: Grass
Power: ---
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 74.6%

Sleep Powder puts the opponent to sleep.

Sleep Powder can't affect an opponent that already has a major status ailment.

Stadium Differences:
Sleep Powder can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.


***Sludge***
Type: Poison
Power: 65
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Sludge does damage and has a 29.7% chance of poisoning the opponent.

Sludge can't poison an opponent that has a substitute, already has a major status ailment, or
is a ground type.


***Smog***
Type: Poison
Power: 20
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 69.5%

Smog does damage and has a 39.8% chance of poisoning the opponent.

Smog can't poison an opponent that has a substitute, already has a major status ailment, or is
a ground type.


***Smokescreen***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Smokescreen decreases the opponent's accuracy by 1 level.

Smokescreen will do nothing if the opponent's accuracy level is at -6, and will fail if the
opponent has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist.


***Softboiled***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: ---

Softboiled restores up to 50% of the user's current HP.

Softboiled will fail if the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0, or if
(user's maximum HP - user's current HP) mod 256 = 255. If the user's current HP is greater than
its maximum HP, Softboiled will set the user's current HP to equal its maximum HP.

Stadium Differences:
Softboiled will fail only when the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0.


***Solarbeam***
Type: Grass
Power: 120
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Solarbeam does nothing on the turn it is selected, other than say that the user took in
sunlight. On the following turn, Solarbeam will do damage, PP will be deducted from it, and it
will count as the last move used. Once Solarbeam is selected, the user won't be able to switch
out until it is disrupted or fully executed.

If Solarbeam is not fully executed, PP will not be deducted from it, and it will not count as
the last move used. If the opponent uses Mirror Move during the turn that the user takes in
sunlight, Mirror Move will copy the move that the user executed immediately before using
Solarbeam (or fail if it can't).

Sleep, freeze, partial trapping, and flinching will pause but not disrupt the duration of
Solarbeam.

Stadium:
Mirror Move will copy Solarbeam on either of the turns it takes to execute.


***Sonicboom***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 89.5%

Unless it misses, Sonicboom will always do 20 points of normal damage to the opponent. Its type
will not alter the amount of damage it inflicts.


***Spike Cannon***
Type: Normal
Power: 20
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Spike Cannon does damage, hitting 2-5 times per use. There is a 37.5% chance that it will hit 2
times, a 37.5% chance that it will hit 3 times, a 12.5% chance that it will hit 4 times, and a
12.5% chance that it will hit 5 times. Though technically only the first hit can critical hit,
each hit per use will do the same amount of damage.

Spike Cannon will end immediately if it breaks a substitute. Counter will only counter the last
hit of a Spike Cannon attack.


***Splash***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: ---

Splash has no effect. Ever.


***Spore***
Type: Grass
Power: ---
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Spore puts the opponent to sleep.

Sleep Powder can't affect an opponent that already has a major status ailment.

Stadium Differences:
Spore can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.


***Stomp***
Type: Normal
Power: 65
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Stomp does damage and has a 29.7% chance of causing the opponent to flinch.

Stomp can only cause the opponent to flinch if the user attacks before the opponent does. Stomp
can't make an opponent with a substitute flinch.


***Strength***
Type: Normal
Power: 80
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Strength does damage.


***String Shot***
Type: Bug
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: 94.5%

String Shot decreases the opponent's speed by 1 level.

String Shot will do nothing if the opponent's speed has reached a level of -6 or a value of 1,
and will fail if the opponent has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist.


***Struggle***
Type: Normal
Power: 50
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Struggle does damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to 50% of the damage done to
the opponent. Struggle will automatically be used by a pokémon that has no usable moves but
is ordered to attack, and has infinite PP in such a situation.

If the user of Struggle attacks first and faints itself due to recoil damage, the opponent will
not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. However, the user will still
be subject to recurrent damage.

If Struggle breaks a substitute, the user will take no recoil damage.

If Struggle was a normally obtainable move, it would have 10-16 PP though no PP would ever be
deducted from it, and self-inflicted recoil damage from Struggle from the previous turn could
be countered if the opponent did not make a move on the following turn.

Stadium Differences:
No recoil damage is taken if Struggle knocks out an opponent. Type has no effect on the amount
of damage that Struggle inflicts.


***Stun Spore***
Type: Grass
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 74.6%

Stun Spore paralyzes the opponent.

Stun Spore can't affect an opponent that already has a major status ailment.

Stadium Differences:
Stun Spore can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.


***Submission***
Type: Fighting
Power: 80
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 79.7%

Submission does damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to 25% of the damage done to
the opponent.

If the user of Submission attacks first and faints itself due to recoil damage, the opponent
will not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. However, the user will
still be subject to recurrent damage.

Self-inflicted recoil damage from Submission from the previous turn can be countered if the
opponent does not make a move on the following turn. If Submission breaks a substitute, the
user will take no recoil damage.

Stadium Differences:
No recoil damage is taken if Submission knocks out an opponent.


***Substitute***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: ---

Using 25% of the user's maximum HP, the user creates a substitute with 1 HP more than the
amount of HP lost by the user. If the user's max HP is 3 or less, it will not lose any HP when
the substitute is made. A substitute will have the same current type(s) and current stats of
the pokémon that has it. Once created, all stat modifying attacks and side effects used by the
opponent against the user will fail, though all current stat modifiers will remain in effect,
and any stat modifiers used by the user will also be applied to the substitute. Until it
breaks, a substitute will absorb all damage done by the opponent (even if the damage done
exceeds the remaining HP of the sustitute), but will not reduce the actual amount of damage
that the opponent's attacks do. A one-hit ko will break a substitute on contact.

Substitute will not protect the user from primary sleep, primary paralysis, secondary
confusion, or self-inflicted status ailments, but it will protect the user from poison,
secondary burns, secondary freeze, secondary paralysis, and primary confusion.

Substitute will not alter the execution of Bide, Counter, Disable, Haze, Leech Seed, Super
Fang, Transform, or partial trapping moves, and it will not absorb crash damage, recoil damage,
or recurrent damage. However, a substitute will absorb self-inflicted confusion damage and
prevent the user from flinching.

If a pokémon breaks a substitute with Hyper Beam, it will not need to recharge. If a pokémon
breaks a substitute with Explosion or Selfdestruct, it will not faint, though its picture will
no longer be visible until it switches out or uses Substitute. If a pokémon breaks a substitute
with a recoil move, it will not take any recoil damage. If a pokémon breaks a substitute with a
draining move, no HP will be restored to it. Note that in each of these cases, the substitute
has to be broken, not merely damaged, by the referenced attack.

If the user's curent HP is less than 25% (rounded down) of its maximum HP, it will be too weak
to make a substitute. If the user's current HP is exactly equal to 25% (rounded down) of its
maximum HP, it will create a substitute, and then faint.

Stadium Differences:
Substitute will protect the user from Absorb, Dream Eater, Leech Life, Leech Seed, Mega Drain,
and all status ailments inflicted by the opponent. If the user's current HP is exactly equal to
25% (rounded down) of its maximum HP, it will be too weak to create a substitute. If a pokémon
breaks a substitute with Explosion or Selfdestruct, it will faint.


***Super Fang***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 89.5%

Super Fang does damage equal to 50% of the opponent's current HP. Although Super Fang does
normal damage, its type does not alter the amount of damage it inflicts. Super Fang will do 1
damage if the opponent's current HP is equal to 1.


***Supersonic***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 54.7%

Supersonic causes the opponent to become confused.

Supersonic will fail if the opponent has a substitute or is already confused.


***Surf***
Type: Water
Power: 95
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Surf does damage.


***Swift***
Type: Normal
Power: 60
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: ---

Swift does damage. Swift is unaffected by accuracy and evasion modifiers, and can hit pokémon
during the semi-invulnerable turn of Dig and Fly.


***Swords Dance***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: ---

Swords Dance increases the user's attack by 2 levels.

Swords Dance will do nothing if the user's attack has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999.
The effect of Swords Dance is ignored by critical hits.


***Tackle***
Type: Normal
Power: 35
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 94.5%

Tackle does damage.


***Tail Whip***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Tail Whip decreases the opponent's defense by 1 level.

Tail Whip will do nothing if the opponent's defense has reached a level of -6 or a value of 1,
and will fail if the opponent has a substitute or is under the effect of Mist. The effect of
Tail Whip is ignored by critical hits.


***Take Down***
Type: Normal
Power: 90
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 84.4%

Take Down does damage, and the user receives recoil damage equal to 25% of the damage done to
the opponent.

If the user of Take Down attacks first and faints itself due to recoil damage, the opponent
will not attack or be subjected to recurrent damage during that round. However, the user will
still be subject to recurrent damage.

Self-inflicted recoil damage from Take Down from the previous turn can be countered if the
opponent does not make a move on the following turn. If Take Down breaks a substitute, the user
will take no recoil damage.

Stadium Differences:
No recoil damage is taken if Take Down knocks out an opponent.


***Teleport***
Type: Psychic
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: ---

Teleport will always fail.

In-game Differences:
Teleport can be used to run away from wild pokémon battles.


***Thrash***
Type: Normal
Power: 90
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Thrash does damage for 3-4 (chosen randomly) turns. Once used (even if it misses on the turn of
its use), the user will only be able to use Thrash, and will not be able to switch out. At the
end of this duration, the user will become confused.

If the Thrash duration is disrupted (such as by full paralysis or hurting itself due to
confusion), it will immediately end. The user will only become confused if Thrash is fully
executed, without its duration being disrupted. Sleep, freeze, partial trapping, and flinching
will pause but not disrupt the duration of Thrash.

Stadium Differences:
After the duration of Thrash ends, there will be a notice that the user becomes confused.


***Thunder***
Type: Electric
Power: 120
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 69.5%

Thunder does damage and has a 9.8% chance of paralyzing the opponent.

Thunder can't paralyze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status
ailment.


***Thunder Wave***
Type: Electric
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Thunder Wave paralyzes the opponent.

Thunder Wave can't affect an opponent that already has a major status ailment, and will not
work against ground types.

Stadium Differences:
Thunder Wave can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.


***Thunderbolt***
Type: Electric
Power: 95
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Thunderbolt does damage and has a 9.8% chance of paralyzing the opponent.

Thunderbolt can't paralyze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status
ailment.


***Thunderpunch***
Type: Electric
Power: 75
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Thunderpunch does damage and has a 9.8% chance of paralyzing the opponent.

Thunderpunch can't paralyze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status
ailment.


***Thundershock***
Type: Electric
Power: 40
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Thundershock does damage and has a 9.8% chance of paralyzing the opponent.

Thundershock can't paralyze an opponent that has a substitute or already has a major status
ailment.


***Toxic***
Type: Poison
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 84.4%

Toxic badly poisons the opponent. Each time the opponent takes recurrent damage, the damage
will equal N*max(1, int(0.0625*MaxHP)). N starts as 1 but is increased by 1 each time the
afflicted pokémon endures recurrent damage (including by Leech Seed). Basically, the pokémon
will lose 1/16 of its maximum HP the first time, then 2/16 of its maximum HP, then 3/16 of its
maximum HP, etc.

The N value of Toxic can be reset by Haze, switching, or ending the battle, but not by Rest. If
a pokémon rests off the poison and gets normally poisoned, burned, or seeded without switching
out, the N value will influence the amount of damage done, and will increase each time
recurrent damage is done. However, if a pokémon gets badly poisoned again, the cumulative value
will be reset. Unlike other types of damage, the recurrent damage done by Toxic can exceed the
opponent's current HP.

Toxic can't affect an opponent that has a substitute, already has a major status ailment, or is
a ground type.

Stadium Differences:
The N value of Toxic will be reset by Rest.


***Transform***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: ---

Transform changes the user's current type(s), current stats, current stat levels, current
move(s), current species, current cry, and current catch rate to the opponent's current
type(s), current stats, current stat levels, current move(s), current species, current cry, and
current catch rate. Each move copied by Transform will have 5 PP.

Transform does not copy the opponent's status ailments, level, current or maximum HP, base
experience, palette colors, or the generic minimize image. The current stat changes due to
Transform will be ignored by critical hits, since critical hits use a pokémon's original stats.
Transform is not affected by accuracy and evasion modifiers, and no move can prevent the
successful execution of Transform.

In-game Differences:
If a wild pokémon uses Transform and is subsequently caught, it will become a Ditto, regardless
of what species it originally was. It will then have all the stats and moves of a Ditto, except
for its current HP, which will remain unaltered by this change.

Stadium Differences:
Transform will not work if the opponent's current species is Ditto.


***Tri Attack***
Type: Normal
Power: 80
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Tri Attack does damage.


***Twineedle***
Type: Bug
Power: 25
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 99.6%

Twineedle does damage, and has a 19.9% chance of poisoning the opponent. Twineedle hits twice
per use. Though technically only the first hit can critical hit, each hit per use will do the
same amount of damage.

Twineedle will end immediately if it breaks a substitute.

Twineedle can't poison an opponent that has a substitute, already has a major status ailment,
or is a poison type.


***Vicegrip***
Type: Normal
Power: 55
PP: 30-48
Accuracy: 99.6%

Vicegrip does damage.


***Vine Whip***
Type: Grass
Power: 35
PP: 10-16
Accuracy: 99.6%

Vine Whip does damage.


***Water Gun***
Type: Water
Power: 40
PP: 25-40
Accuracy: 99.6%

Water Gun does damage.


***Waterfall***
Type: Water
Power: 80
PP: 15-24
Accuracy: 99.6%

Waterfall does damage.


***Whirlwind***
Type: Normal
Power: ---
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 84.4%

Whirlwind will never affect the opponent.

In-game Differences:
Whirlwind can be used to automatically end wild pokémon battles.


***Wing Attack***
Type: Flying
Power: 35
PP: 35-56
Accuracy: 99.6%

Wing Attack does damage.


***Withdraw***
Type: Water
Power: ---
PP: 40-61
Accuracy: ---

Withdraw increases the user's defense by 1 level.

Withdraw will do nothing if the user's defense has reached a level of +6 or a value of 999.


***Wrap***
Type: Normal
Power: 15
PP: 20-32
Accuracy: 84.4%

Wrap does damage for 2-5 turns. There is a 37.5% chance that it will attack for 2 turns, a
37.5% chance that it will attack for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 4 turns,
and a 12.5% chance that it will attack for 5 turns. Though technically only the first attack
can critical hit, every attack during the duration will do the same amount of damage. During
this turn duration, the opponent will be unable to attack, and if the user of Wrap attacks
before the opponent when used, the opponent will be unable to attack during that round as well.

Damage done by Wrap's continuing duration is done after recurrent damage. If the user switches
out before the turn duration ends, the opponent will be unable to attack during that turn. If
the opponent switches out before the turn duration ends, Wrap will automatically be used
against the incoming pokémon, deducting an additional PP from the move. If at such a time Wrap
has 0 PP, Wrap will still be used against the incoming pokémon. After that use, the current PP
of Wrap will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it.

Even if Wrap misses, it will negate the recharge turn normally required for Hyper Beam.
Additionally, if the user of Wrap attacks before the user of Hyper Beam during a recharge turn
and the use of Wrap misses, the user of Hyper Beam will automatically use Hyper Beam during
that turn. If at such a time Hyper Beam has 0 PP, Hyper Beam will still be used, and afterwards
its current PP will roll over to 63, and full PP ups will be applied to it.

Although Wrap can't damage ghost types, it can immobilize them.

In-game differences:
The opponent will get to select a move during each turn of Wrap's duration, and will attack
your incoming pokémon with the selected move if you decide to switch before the duration is
over.

Stadium Differences:
You get to select a move during each turn of Wrap's duration. If the opponent switches out
before the duration ends, the incoming pokémon will not automatically be attacked. Wrap will
negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful.



H. Other Battle-Related Stuff;

H1. Critical Hits;
If a damaging move scores a critical hit, damage from the move will be calculated using twice
the user's level as well as the user's and opponent's original stats. Because of this, critical
hits ignore Reflect, Light Screen, all stat modifiers (including the attack reduction due to
burn), and stat changes due to Transform.

A damaging attack will be a critical hit if a randomly chosen number from 0 to 255 is less than
min(255, int(N*int(S/2))), where S is the base speed of the user's current species and N
depends on what moves are being used. Under most cases N is 1, but is multiplied by 8 if using
an attack with a high critical hit ratio, is divided by 4 if under the effect of Focus Energy
in a gameboy battle, and is multiplied by 4 if under the effect of Focus Energy in Stadium.

If a pokémon's level reaches 256 or higher during the damage calculation, it will be reduced
mod 256.

Moves that have high critical hit ratios: Crabhammer, Karate Chop, Razor Leaf, Slash


H2. Flinching;
A pokémon may only cause its opponent to flinch if in any given round it attacks before the
opponent performs an action. If the opponent flinches, it loses its ability to make an attack
during its turn in that round.

Flinching negates the recharge turn of Hyper Beam. Turns spent flinching will not count towards
the durations of Petal Dance, Thrash, multi-turn moves, and the confusion ailment. A pokémon
with a substitute cannot flinch.

Moves that can cause flinching: Bite, Bone Club, Headbutt, Hyper Fang, Low Kick, Rolling Kick,
          Stomp


H3. Items
This is a list of the items that can be used during battles, and their effects. Use of an item
counts as an action and and has priority over making a move, but not over switching. Items
may not be used in link battles.

Every item in this section except for the Poké Flute is a one-time use item. Unless noted,
items will not be usable if they will have no effect on the selected target.


***Antidote***
Antidote will cure a pokémon of the poison status ailment.

***Awakening***
Awakening will cure a pokémon of the sleep status ailment.

***Burn Heal***
Burn Heal will cure a pokémon of the burn status ailment.

***Dire Hit***
Like Focus Energy, Dire Hit will quarter the probability of your active pokémon scoring a
critical hit and will last until you switch your active pokémon. Dire Hit can be used in
multiples, but will have no actual effect beyond the first use. If under the influence of Dire
Hit, use of Focus Energy will fail, and the effect of Dire Hit can be removed via Haze.

***Elixer***
Elixir will increase the current PP of each of a pokémon's moves by up to 10 (or set the move's
current PP equal to its maximum PP if its current PP is greater than its maximum PP).

***Ether***
Ether will increase the current PP of one of a pokémon's moves by up to 10 (or set the move's
current PP equal to its maximum PP if its current PP is greater than its maximum PP).

***Fresh Water***
Fresh Water will increase a pokémon's current HP by up to 50 (or set its current HP equal to
its maximum HP if its current HP is greater than its maximum HP).

***Full Heal***
Full Heal will cure any major status ailment that a pokémon has.

***Full Restore***
Full Restore will make a pokémon's current HP equal to its maximum HP, and cure any major
status ailments it has.

***Great Ball***
A Great Ball might catch a wild pokémon, with a success rate of 1.5 times that of a Pokéball.
If used against a trainer's pokémon, it will always be blocked.

***Guard Spec.***
Like Mist, Guard Spec. will prevent the effects of primary stat modifications inflicted by the
opponent.

***Hyper Potion***
Hyper Potion will increase a pokémon's current HP by up to 200 (or set its current HP equal to
its maximum HP if its current HP is greater than its maximum HP).

***Ice Heal***
Ice Heal will cure a pokémon of the freeze status ailment.

***Lemonade***
Lemonade will increase a pokémon's current HP by up to 80 (or set its current HP equal to its
maximum HP if its current HP is greater than its maximum HP).

***Master Ball***
A Master Ball will catch a wild pokémon. If used against a trainer's pokémon, it will always be
blocked.

***Max Elixer***
Max Elixir will make the current PP of each of a pokémon's moves equal to their maximum PP
values.

***Max Ether***
Max Ether will make the current PP of one of a pokémon's moves equal to its maximum PP.

***Max Potion***
Max Potion will make a pokémon's current HP equal to its maximum HP.

***Max Revive***
Max Revive can only be used on a pokémon that has fainted, and will restore all of that
pokémon's health.

***Paralyz Heal***
Paraylz Heal will cure a pokémon of the paralysis status ailment.

***Pokéball***
A Pokéball might catch a wild pokémon. If used against a trainer's pokémon, it will always be
blocked.

***Poké Flute***
When played, the Poké Flute will cure all active pokémon of the sleep status ailment. If no
active pokémon are asleep, it will just note that it is a catchy tune.

***Potion***
Potion will increase a pokémon's current HP by up to 20 (or set its current HP equal to its
maximum HP if its current HP is greater than its maximum HP).

***Revive***
Revive can only be used on a pokémon that has fainted, and will restore half of that pokémon's
health.

***Soda Pop***
Soda Pop will increase a pokémon's current HP by up to 60 (or set its current HP equal to its
maximum HP if its current HP is greater than its maximum HP).

***Super Potion***
Super Potion will increase a pokémon's current HP by up to 50 (or set its current HP equal to
its maximum HP if its current HP is greater than its maximum HP).

***Ultra Ball***
An Ultra Ball might catch a wild pokémon, with a success rate of twice that of a Pokéball. If
used against a trainer's pokémon, it will always be blocked.

***X Accuracy***
X Accuracy increases your active pokémon's accuracy by 1 level. If your active pokémon's
accuracy has reached a level cap, use of X Accuracy will do nothing.

***X Attack***
X Attack increases your active pokémon's attack by 1 level. If your active pokémon's attack has
reached a level or value cap, use of X Attack will do nothing.

***X Defend***
X Defend increases your active pokémon's defense by 1 level. If your active pokémon's defense
has reached a level or value cap, use of X Defense will do nothing.

***X Special***
X Special increases your active pokémon's special by 1 level. If your active pokémon's special
has reached a level or value cap, use of X Special will do nothing.

***X Speed***
X Speed increases your active pokémon's speed by 1 level. If your active pokémon's speed has
reached a level or value cap, use of X Speed will do nothing.


H4. In-game Differences;
This is a cross reference list of in-game differences.

Burn (In-game) status ailment:
Any attack modifiers used against a burned pokémon will cause the attack reduction due to burn
to be ignored.

Paraylsis (In-game) status ailment:
Any speed modifiers used against a paralyzed pokémon will cause the speed reduction due to
paralysis to be ignored.

Bind (In-game):
The opponent will get to select a move during each turn of Bind's duration, and will attack
your incoming pokémon with the selected move if you decide to switch before the duration is
over.

Clamp (In-game):
The opponent will get to select a move during each turn of Clamp's duration, and will attack
your incoming pokémon with the selected move if you decide to switch before the duration is
over.

Fire Spin (In-game):
The opponent will get to select a move during each turn of Fire Spin's duration, and will
attack your incoming pokémon with the selected move if you decide to switch before the duration
is over.

Mimic (In-game):
Mimic allows you to see the opponent's moveset and select the move to copy.

Pay Day (In-game):
Coins scattered by Pay Day are picked up if you win the battle.

Roar (In-game):
Roar can be used to automatically end wild pokémon battles.

Teleport (In-game):
Teleport can be used to run away from wild pokémon battles.

Transform (In-game):
If a wild pokémon uses Transform and is subsequently caught, it will become a Ditto, regardless
of its original species. It will then have all the stats and moves of a Ditto, except for its
current HP, which will not be altered by this change.

Whirlwind (In-game):
Whirlwind can be used to automatically end wild pokémon battles.

Wrap (In-game):
The opponent will get to select a move during each turn of Wrap's duration, and will attack
your incoming pokémon with the selected move if you decide to switch before the duration is
over.

For general in-game differences, see section B.


H5. Stadium Differences;
This is a cross reference list of Stadium differences.

General Stadium Differences:
A pokémon's health bar will have 96 pixels. Players will be able to see the exact amount of
current and maximum HP that each active pokémon has. Damaging moves that do 0 damage will
always result in a message that the move missed.

Type Effectiveness Messages (Stadium):
The type effectiveness messages associated with moves will take both of a pokémon's types into
account.

Burn (Stadium) status ailment:
The attack reduction of a burn will be reset by rest. Attack-raising attacks will not negate
the attack loss penalty. A pokémon can completely rid itself of the burn ailment by using Haze.
A pokémon will not take burn damage when it switches in.

Confusion (Stadium) status ailment:
The messages regarding confusion are displayed after the move choice is shown, allowing both
players to see the attempted attack regardless of success. A substitute will completely protect
the user from confusion (though not self-inflicted confusion).

Freeze (Stadium) status ailment:
You get to select a move while the pokémon is frozen.

Paralysis (Stadium) status ailment:
Rest will reset the speed reduction of paralysis. Speed-raising attacks will not negate the
speed loss penalty. Substitute will completely protect the user from paralysis. A pokémon can
completely rid itself of the paralysis ailment by using Haze.

Poison (Stadium) status ailment:
A pokémon can rid itself of the poison ailment by using Haze. A pokémon will not take poison
damage when it switches in.

Sleep (Stadium) status ailment:
The pokémon receives a sleep duration of 1-3 turns (chosen randomly). Also, you get to select a
move while the pokémon is asleep. A substitute will protect the user from primary sleep.

Absorb (Stadium):
Absorb will always miss if the opponent has a substitute.

Acid (Stadium):
Acid has a 19.9% chance of lowering the opponent's defense by 1 level.

Aurora Beam (Stadium):
Aurora Beam has a 29.7% chance of lowering the opponent's attack by 1 level.

Bide (Stadium):
You get to select a move during each of Bide's idling turns. Bide will miss against pokémon
that are in the middle of Dig or Fly.

Bind (Stadium):
You get to select a move during each turn of Bind's duration. If the opponent switches out
before the duration ends, the incoming pokémon will not automatically be attacked. Bind will
negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful.

Bubblebeam (Stadium):
Bubblebeam has a 29.7% chance of lowering the opponent's speed by 1 level.

Clamp (Stadium):
You get to select a move during each turn of Clamp's duration. If the opponent switches out
before the duration ends, the incoming pokémon will not automatically be attacked. Clamp will
negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful.

Confusion (Stadium):
Confusion can't confuse an opponent that has a substitute.

Counter (Stadium):
Switching, full paralysis, and using a multi-turn move reset the last amount of damage done, so
Counter can't counter itself or self-inflicted recoil damage if the opponent does not make a
move on its following turn.

Dig (Stadium):
Dig will allow the user to avoid damage reversed by Bide. Full paralysis will reset the mostly-
invulnerable part of Dig. Mirror Move will copy Dig on either of the turns it takes to execute.

Disable (Stadium):
Disable will cause a pokémon's rage to build only if successful. The disabled move's PP is not
replaced with a "disabled!" message, though attempting to select the move will still result in
a notice that the move is disabled.

Double-Edge (Stadium):
No recoil damage is taken if Double-Edge knocks out an opponent.

Dream Eater (Stadium):
Dream Eater will always miss if the opponent has a substitute.

Explosion (Stadium):
If Explosion breaks an opponent's substitute, the user will faint.

Fire Spin (Stadium):
You get to select a move during each turn of Fire Spin's duration. If the opponent switches out
before the duration ends, the incoming pokémon will not automatically be attacked. Fire Spin
will negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful.

Fly (Stadium):
Fly will allow the user to avoid damage reversed by Bide. Full paralysis will reset the mostly-
invulnerable part of Fly. Mirror Move will copy Fly on either of the turns it takes to execute.

Focus Energy (Stadium):
Focus Energy works properly; it quadruples the probability of the user scoring a critical hit.

Glare (Stadium):
Glare can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.

Haze (Stadium):
Haze eliminates any major status ailments that the user has.

Hyper Beam (Stadium):
Hyper Beam requires a recharge turn every time it is used.

Hypnosis (Stadium):
Hypnosis can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.

Leech Life (Stadium):
Leech Life will always miss if the opponent has a substitute.

Leech Seed (Stadium):
Leech Seed will not work against a substitute.

Lovely Kiss (Stadium):
Lovely Kiss can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.

Mega Drain (Stadium):
Mega Drain will always miss if the opponent has a substitute.

Mimic (Stadium):
Mimic will not copy a move's max PP.

Mirror Move (Stadium):
Mirror Move will copy multi-turn moves during either of the turns they take to execute.

Petal Dance (Stadium):
After the duration of Petal Dance ends, there will be a notice that the user becomes confused.

Psybeam (Stadium):
Psybeam can't confuse an opponent that has a substitute.

Rage (Stadium):
Disable will cause a pokémon's rage to build only if successful.

Razor Wind (Stadium):
Mirror Move will copy Razor Wind on either of the turns it takes to execute.

Recover (Stadium):
Recover will fail only when the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0.

Rest (Stadium):
Rest will fail only when the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0. Rest
will reset the cumulative nature of Toxic and the stat drops due to paralysis and burns.

Selfdestruct (Stadium):
If Selfdestruct breaks an opponent's substitute, the user will faint.

Sing (Stadium):
Sing can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.

Skull Bash (Stadium):
Mirror Move will copy Skull Bash on either of the turns it takes to execute.

Sky Attack (Stadium):
Mirror Move will copy Sky Attack on either of the turns it takes to execute.

Sleep Powder (Stadium):
Sleep Powder can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.

Softboiled (Stadium):
Softboiled will fail only when the difference between the user's current and maximum HP is 0.

Solarbeam (Stadium):
Mirror Move will copy Solarbeam on either of the turns it takes to execute.

Spore (Stadium):
Spore can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.

Struggle (Stadium):
No recoil damage is taken if Struggle knocks out an opponent. Type has no effect on the amount
of damage that Struggle inflicts.

Stun Spore (Stadium):
Stun Spore can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.

Submission (Stadium):
No recoil damage is taken if Submission knocks out an opponent.

Substitute (Stadium):
Substitute will protect the user from Absorb, Dream Eater, Leech Life, Leech Seed, Mega Drain,
and all status ailments inflicted by the opponent. If the user's current HP is exactly equal to
25% (rounded down) of its maximum HP, it will be too weak to create a substitute. If a pokémon
breaks a substitute with Explosion or Selfdestruct, it will faint.

Take Down (Stadium):
No recoil damage is taken if Take Down knocks out an opponent.

Thunder Wave (Stadium):
Thunder Wave can't affect an opponent that has a substitute.

Thrash (Stadium):
After the duration of Thrash ends, there will be a notice that the user becomes confused.

Toxic (Stadium):
The cumulative nature of Toxic will be reset by Rest.

Transform (Stadium):
Transform will not work if the opponent's current species is Ditto.

Wrap (Stadium):
You get to select a move during each turn of Wrap's duration. If the opponent switches out
before the duration ends, the incoming pokémon will not automatically be attacked. Wrap will
negate the recharge turn of Hyper Beam only if successful.



I. Reference Information;

I1. Glossary;
These are the definitions of various terms as used in this document.

***Active pokémon***
Out of your party of up to 6 pokémon, the one that is at the time facing an opponent.

***Altered-priority (move)***
A move such as Counter or Quick Attack whose very use takes precedence over the speed of the
active pokémon. In any given round, using an increased priority move will make the user attack
before its opponent by default, while using a decreased priority move will make the user attack
after its opponent by default. If both active pokémon use an increased or decreased priority
move, turn placement will be determined normally.

***Battle Damage Formula (BDF for short)***
The formula used to calculate the amount of damage done by an attack that has a power.

***Chromatic***
Collectively refers to Pokémon Red, Pokémon Blue, Pokémon Yellow, and Pokémon Stadium, the
first generation of pokémon games featuring 151 pokémon and 165 moves.

***Current***
What a property is at a referenced time, since it may have changed during the course of the
battle.

***Disrupt***
When the full execution of any move that takes more than one turn to fully execute is prevented
because of a move, flinching, status ailment, etc.

***Draining move***
A move that will do damage and increase the user's HP depending on the amount of damage done,
such as Dream Eater or Leech Life.

***Evolution Level***
The earliest level at which a pokémon can have evolved from its lower evolution. The evolution
level of a pokémon that has no evolutions or is the lowest evolution in its chain is 1. The
evolution level of a pokémon that evolves by using a stone is equal to the evolution level of
its unevolved form, because it does not have to increase a level to evolve. It is possible to
obtain some pokémon below their evolution levels, such as the Lv.4 Metapods that can be found
in Viridian Forest.

***Extended Duration***
Refers to any move that normally takes more than one turn to fully execute yet uses just 1 PP.
Extended duration moves include all multi-turn moves, all partial trapping moves, Bide, Hyper
Beam, Petal Dance, Rage, and Thrash.

***GSC***
Short for Gold, Silver, and Crystal, which are nearly clones of each other; can be used as an
abbreviation of sorts for Metallic.

***In-game***
Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow each consist of two major parts: the RPG section, in which you
complete a quest in the Kanto region, catch & train pokémon, and find items, and the link
battle section, where you can link with a friend and battle each other with your team. In-game
refers to things that exclusively occur in the RPG section of the games.

***Initial***
What a property is before the battle began, since it may change during the course of the
battle.

***Int***
The integer portion of a number; written in the form int(N).

***Metallic***
Collectively refers to Pokémon Gold, Pokémon Silver, Pokémon Crystal, and Pokémon Stadium 2,
the second generation of pokémon games featuring 251 pokémon and 251 moves.

***Max***
Out of two numbers, the larger one; written in the form max(A, B).

***Min***
Out of two numbers, the smaller one; written in the form min(A, B).

***Mod***
Short for modulo, a mathematical operation. To find the value of A mod B, reduce (or increase)
A by increments of B until you end up with a nonnegative number less than B.

***Move streak***
When a pokémon learns moves on levels that immediately follow each other, such as the Lv.13,
Lv.14, Lv.15 move streak in Butterfree's Yellow level move list. Learning more than one move on
the same level does not count towards a move streak.

***Multi-hit (move)***
A move that performs more than one hit in one turn, though it uses just 1 PP. There are two
types of multi-hit moves:
     Type 1: Hits twice per use, such as Bonemerang and Double Kick.
     Type 2: Hits 2-5 times per use, such as Barrage and Pin Missile, and has a 37.5% chance of
               performing 2 hits, a 37.5% chance of performing 3 hits, a 12.5% chance of
               performing 4 hits, and a 12.5% chance of performing 5 hits.

***Multi-turn (move)***
A move that takes two turns to fully execute, though it uses just 1 PP. On the first turn of
such a move, only a check to see if the pokémon can use the move will be performed, and on the
following turn, the move will do damage, PP will be deducted from it, and (in a gameboy battle)
it will then count as the last move used. Dig and Fly also render the user invulnerable to most
attacks during the first turn of their use.

***One-hit KO (OHKO)***
A move that will cause the opponent to faint if successful, regardless of other factors such as
HP or defense.

***One-time Use***
Refers to an item that is is consumed/disappears after being used, since some items can be
used repeatedly without being consumed.

***Palette Color***
The image of each pokémon in the game consists of two parts. One part is its overall shape. The
other is the set of colors that are in the image, and those are what palette color(s) refer to.
Each pokémon image has four palette colors, two of which are always black and white. There are
some differences in the palette colors of Red/Blue as compared to Yellow as well as the
metallic generation.

***Partial Trapping***
A condition inflicted by a move (such as Clamp or Wrap) that lasts for 2-5 rounds during which
a pokémon will be unable to attack (but still able to switch out) while its opponent does
damage with one move chosen at the beginning of the duration. There is a 37.5% chance it will
last for 2 turns, a 37.5% chance it will last for 3 turns, a 12.5% chance it will last for 4
turns, and a 12.5% chance it will last for 5 turns.

***Pause***
When the full execution of a multi-turn move is delayed (but not disrupted) because of a move,
flinching, status ailment, etc.

***Pokédollars***
For lack of a better word, the currency that is used in the Pokémon games. If that's too
unnatural for you, you could call it yen (the standard currency of Japan) instead, since that
is the currency used in the Japanese Pokémon games.

***Previous (level)***
A move that a pokémon can't learn by level, but one of its lower evolutions can learn by level.
Note that Surf Raichu is also considered a Previous move, due to the special circumstances
under which it can learn it.

***Primary***
Refers to a status ailment or stat modification that is guaranteed to happen if the move
inflicting it does not miss. Paralysis from Glare and defense reduction from Screech are
examples of a primary status ailment and stat modification.

***RBY***
Short for Red, Blue, and Yellow, which are nearly clones of each other; can be used as an
abbreviation of sorts for Chromatic.

***Recurrent (damage)***
The fixed amount of damage inflicted by poison, a burn, and/or Leech seed at the end of each of
the afflicted pokémon's turns. Unlike nearly every other way to inflict damage, recurrent
damage can be greater than the pokémon's current HP.

***Reversed (damage)***
Damage that can be inflicted only in response to being damaged (such as via Bide or Counter).

***Round***
Two back-to-back turns (yours and your opponent's) and what was done during those turns. It can
frequently but not always be interchanged with "turn."

***Secondary***
Refers to a status ailment or stat modification that might happen if the move inflicting it
does not miss. Paralysis from Body Slam and defense reduction from Acid are examples of a
secondary status ailment and stat modification.

***STAB***
Short for same-type attack bonus. If a pokémon uses a damaging move whose type matches one of
the user's current types, that attack will do 50% more damage.

***Turn***
The action that you, your pokémon, your opponent, or your opponent's pokémon just performed,
such as attack, switch, or use an item. It can frequently but not always be interchanged with
"round."


I2. Additional Resources;

Azure Heights, http://www.math.miami.edu/~jam/azure/ (or just http://www.azureheights.com/)
Detailed research concerning the chromatic series.

GameFAQS, http://www.gamefaqs.com/
Houses lots of FAQs on lots of games.

The P-Files, http://white-cat.virtualave.net/pfiles/
White Cat's page, with his dexes and some other files.


I3. Revision History;

      2 Nov 2004 - first public release

      7 Jan 2005 - expanded overall scope of this faq to include as much information as
                   possible about the battling aspect of pokémon in RBY
                 - created type effectiveness and stats sections
                 - added detailed information on minimum move amounts
                 - added definitions for In-game, Move Streak, and Partial Trapping
                 - added new information about Disable and HP-restoring moves
                 - split the move information section into subsections
                 - moved the previous evolution move section to Moves section
                 - moved the in-game and stadium differences lists to the Other Battle-Related
                   Things section
                 - made minor additions and corrections in entries for the status ailments
                   Confusion and Sleep and the moves Fissure, Flamethrower, Focus Energy, Hyper
                   Beam, Light Screen, Mist, Recover, Reflect, Toxic, and Transform
                 - made rounding corrections in the extended BDF
                 - corrected some minor typos and made other small changes

     12 Mar 2005 - added an Order of Operations section and an Items subsection
                 - added some more information to the Type Effectiveness section
                 - added some information to and restructured the Battle Information section
                 - added more information about defrosting/attack selecting, and PP roll over
                 - added definitions for Extended Duration, One-time Use, and Palette Color
                 - made some additions and corrections in entries for the status ailment Freeze
                   and the moves Counter, Disable, Hyper Beam, Metronome, Mirror Move, Petal
                   Dance, Rage, and Thrash
                 - made some corrections regarding altered-priority moves, palette colors,
                   switching, and type effectiveness messages
                 - corrected a couple of minor typos and made other small changes


I4. Contacting Me;
You can contact me at GameFAQs (Nautilator), by sending email to nautilator@hotmail.com (though
I don't check that email too often), or by other means.


I5. Unanswered Questions;
These are all the RBY questions that I haven't been able to find answers to, or am looking for
confirmation. Any help answering them would be appreciated.

 1. Does Blizzard ever have a 30% freeze rate, and if so, under what conditions?

 2. What causes moves like Growl, Roar, and Teleport to fail in-game? (It looks like there is a
    25% failure rate for such moves if the opponent is faster than the user, but I don't know
    all moves that this applies to or why.)

 3. In the gameboy, Substitute does not prevent primary paralysis (like from Glare or Thunder
    Wave) yet prevents secondary paralysis (like from Body Slam or Lick). If things like
    secondary sleep, primary burn, and primary freeze existed, would Substitute block them?

 4. If Counter does not manage to counter anything, does it actually miss, or just fail? Bide
    counts the last amount of damage done if a move that does not actually miss is used (like
    if something used Seismic Toss and then Counter, it'll count the turn for Counter as if
    Seismic Toss had been used), and it looks like such accumulation is only reset by moves
    that miss, not fail. If it actually misses, then why does it not reset Bide accumulation?
    If it just fails, then why does the game claim that it misses?

 5. What are the color boundaries for the health meter? I got my answers by guess and test, and
    I think the red/orange boundary line is off by a point in a couple of places.

 6. In Stadium, is the maximum amount of damage that Psywave can do less than 1.5 times the
    user's level, or less-than-or-equal-to 1.5 times the user's level?

 7. If Counter counters a HP-restoring item (in-game of course), how much damage does it do? In
    at least one case (Super Potion), it does not seem like it does damage equal to the amount
    of HP restored.

 8. Has anyone (else) done any formal testing on side effect rates in Stadium? After reading a
    number of old posts at Azure Heights that said they had increased, I did some testing and
    it apaprently is true, but I'd like some confirmation of the results. Also, since I am only
    able to use rental pokemon, I can't check the side effect rate of Constrict.

 9. If you have a traded pokemon that won't obey you, what is the probability that it will
    disobey your orders, and what are the chances of each possible outcome happening?

10. What exactly is the probability of failure when trying to run away from a battle?

11. How do OHKOs deal damage?


If you have more generic descriptions that account for the unusual behavior of certain moves
(such as Bide, Counter, Haze, Horn Drill), I'd like to know about it. And of course, if I have
any faulty or am missing any information, I'd like to know about that too.


I6. Credits;

***Azure Heights*** (http://www.math.miami.edu/~jam/azure/contributors.htm)
Because it provided a lot of general information and a nice starting point for making this
document.

***Jolt0135***
For some general gameboy information and confirmation of some of Metronome's behavior.

***MasamuneXGP***
For doing a number of tests and result confirming, and for proofreading.

***Meowth346***
For some help with the palette colors and determining the displayed type effectiveness
messages.

***NickWiz1***
Whose walkthrough FAQ (found at GameFAQs) was consulted for the effects of gym badges.

***Uiru***
For some Rage testing.

***White Cat***
Whose dexes (found at The P-Files) were handy in making the list of previous evolution moves.

And less directly, pretty much everyone who posted various bits of (RBY) information and
observations in the Azure Heights Research Lab from 2000-2004. This includes but is probably
not limited to: Anthrax, Atma, cfalcon, incompetent, Jolt0135, KeroKato, magmar5, Meowth346,
MewtwoSama, Mr. K, NeoSyrex, NickWiz1, PoKamek, Uiru, VaporeonsHaze, Volrath50, White Cat,
Wintermute, and Yay Porygon.


I couldn't have completed this document without your help. Thanks. (And if I forgot to mention
you, feel free to let me know.)


